Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello farmers and welcome to another episode of the harvest season. My name is Al
Kevin: My name is Kevin we can we know we'll talk about Pokemon so
Al: And we're here today to talk about Pokemon wait note cottage core games
Al: Yeah, it's literally in my world would be nothing
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, yeah
Al: All right, this episode we're gonna talk about star signed Island
Kevin: That's that's not a stardew spin off or
Al: It is not. I have been playing it.
Al: I'm going to talk about it a little bit on episodes, but you know, I'm going to properly
Al: talk about it. It is not as generic as the name might have it sound. Let's put it that
Kevin: Are you saying this is not just Stardew for we? Yeah, yeah, yeah, right? That's the caveat, but yes, no. Yeah, yeah, there you go. There you go. Oh.
Al: way. No, but also yes. Both can be true. So yeah, we're going to talk about that. We also
Al: have some news.
Al: To talk about some big news to talk about before that, I know what you released last month, we also have a piece of feedback to talk about.
Kevin: Whoa, that's exciting
Al: But first of all, Kevin, what have you been up to?
Kevin: So I'm picked up a new roguelike in the past two weeks
Al: Oh, tell me.
Kevin: Called COVID and it's it's pretty wild
Kevin: Because some runs you know some days you ever run every day really and some get really hard out of nowhere
Al: I thought, I thought a run was every time you get COVID.
Kevin: Well, no, now this is only my seconds. Oh
Al: It's a game we've been playing since 2020.
Kevin: Oh, hey, this is only my second time.
Kevin: Um, and which was wild because I'm pretty sure I had just like a regular cold a couple of weeks ago and there was like a five day pause where I was fine. I was better, but then I got not good again.
Kevin: I thought it was a flu at first, but then about five days in or so pains on my head started and it was a weird symptoms that didn't feel flu like.
Kevin: Um, so COVID is, uh, it's, it's what slowed me down.
Kevin: I actually stopped me. My, my streak of, of appearances on the show. Um, yeah.
Al: Yeah, Kevin was meant to be on last week's episode, but couldn't because of COVID.
Kevin: Yeah. But I am alive. I'm hacking after the side. Um, I was probably still
Kevin: patching and I'm cutting them off, but generally I'm better. I don't know if I'm contagious
Kevin: still, but I've been trying to hold in and hide from the world. Um, but, uh, and yet, yeah.
Al: Yeah, I mean, the good thing is you're not contagious over the internet, so...
Al: Oh, don't say that.
Kevin: With this administration, you never know what boundaries that are, are, uh, are good
Kevin: old Kennedy in the health department. We'll, you know, come up with.
Kevin: Oh, anyway, so yeah, aside from COVID, um, I did actually manage to play a game,
Kevin: hither or thither, um, uh, pigment for. I, I announced it and screamed about it at the
Al: ooh
Kevin: end of the last step. So I actually did it. I played the pigment for. Um, yeah.
Al: Nice. Now, if you remind me before you talk about this game, you have played the other
Kevin: I have played, um, I have played, pigment two, three and four. I've not played the original.
Al: Pickmans, right?
Kevin: I have briefly played Hey, Pick, Mindy. Off forgotten 3DS entry and rightfully so
Kevin: off forgot. But, um, but I, no, I'm not played Bloons. Um, yeah, no, I'm touched it. Although
Al: And while the Pikmin go, sorry, bloom.
Kevin: has an activity with balloon, which is
Kevin: an interesting, but okay. But yeah, I'm
Kevin: in touch with a little bit. Anyway, so pigment for, I have very mixed emotions.
Kevin: So we're meant to being my first game. As actually, I would say, my favorite
Kevin: pigment, re they, means the difficulty,
Kevin: sitterably, but which is fine because pigment two is, for me, in
Kevin: insanely hard in places. Um, so, you know,
Kevin: maybe not my preference per se, but I still think pigment the overall was pretty well done.
Kevin: Hickman 3 did a great job of, uh, being able to, you know, you have your different
Kevin: groups of pigments, but you also have different playable characters, and you can swap between them
Kevin: in different areas and stuff, um, which makes, you know, the multitasking and strategizing
Kevin: with the pigment very fun. Um, so I'm quite fond of picking three overall, um, and, and
Kevin: and Pikmin too, as I said, very fond of that as well.
Kevin: - Pikmin 4!
Kevin: - Is that to go in a different direction?
Kevin: Instead of a named character, you are an MC, you know.
Kevin: And you're own unit, you pick your appearance and name.
Kevin: And instead of giving you another captain to be your partner, whatever they give you,
Kevin: be what they call an astro-pop or astro-dog.
Kevin: It's a weird dog with like two legs, which serves as both an
Kevin: Captain and a squad of Pikmin on its own because Ochi can do
Kevin: most things Pikmin can do, can carry stuff, it can fight enemies, et cetera, et cetera.
Kevin: And so they basically put a lot of emphasis on,
Kevin: kind of like customizing your own character and Ochi instead of focusing more on splitting up a group
Kevin: and managing different captains and whatnot.
Kevin: So I'm not particularly fond of that direction,
Kevin: But the old
Kevin: old game design, they actually took a lot back from clickment to or a lot of note from the design
Kevin: inputment to. They introduced a lot of caves which were not that prevalent in Pikmin 3 and so you
Kevin: know you have your overworld where you're out collecting treasure and fruits and whatever with your
Kevin: Pikmin and you'll enter caves which are you know however many levels deep varies wildly the biggest
Kevin: what I've seen is like when gee I think um
Kevin: But most of them are five to ten at most.
Kevin: And so caves are kind of like a different environment.
Kevin: And so you're going to go away from the overworld.
Kevin: And you're solving these puzzles.
Kevin: Anyways, I think the puzzle design of Raw in Pikmin 4
Kevin: is considerably easier than Pikmin 3 or 2.
Kevin: But they brought back a lot of enemies
Kevin: from two, including some quite difficult and challenging ones,
Kevin: which is very fun to see.
Kevin: So yeah, I have mixed feelings.
Kevin: So they did a lot of stuff.
Kevin: I like a lot of stuff.
Kevin: I'm not fond of.
Kevin: But I played it.
Kevin: I hit credits technically.
Kevin: But this is one of those games where you hit credits.
Kevin: But they gave you another big task right after
Kevin: to reach the real credits.
Kevin: You know?
Kevin: And so I've been working toward that.
Kevin: I'm more or less at that end point.
Kevin: But I'm going through and kind of just 100%ing everything.
Kevin: But yeah, I mean, it's a...
Kevin: enough to keep me engaged.
Kevin: Um, so yeah, pigment for...
Kevin: I'd still give it a thumbs up.
Kevin: I like pigment for someone who's never played.
Kevin: I think it's a solid entry, probably.
Kevin: Um, but I still would recommend three or maybe even two to someone else.
Kevin: So I mean, I personally recommend two, but I know two's not going to be fair to everyone.
Kevin: Um, oh, there is one weird restriction though.
Kevin: So you can have a hundred pigment on the field at any time.
Kevin: It's a series staple that's always been the limitation and then it's fine.
Kevin: Here's the weird thing though, in pigment four, you can only have three types of pigment
Kevin: at any given time.
Kevin: That's really weird because there are seven types of minerals, I think.
Kevin: If my math is correct, um, there's nine, I don't remember, um, but it's weird because, yeah,
Al: - Mm-hmm.
Al: - Certainly more than three.
Kevin: - Yeah, certainly more than three.
Kevin: Back on the GameCube.
Kevin: And it would have five types of Pikmin at one time.
Kevin: So it feels weird that they'd limited that.
Kevin: What?
Kevin: Yeah, I don't know what to make of that.
Al: That is a weird thing to go back on essentially.
Kevin: But yeah, basically, I think, and I think maybe that's
Kevin: why they eased up on the puzzles.
Kevin: Like you don't need as many Pikmin types
Kevin: for every obstacle or whatever, like, I don't know.
Kevin: It's strange, but they did it, and I don't know.
Kevin: Oh, there is one thing.
Kevin: The night expeditions.
Kevin: Wow, so the classic Pikmin gameplay loop
Kevin: is you have, you know, you land on the planet
Kevin: and you have a certain period of time
Kevin: until the end of the day, like, literally sunset,
Kevin: and you have to wrap everything up because the Pikmin
Kevin: world is far too dangerous at night.
Kevin: So if you have any Pikmin left on the surface,
Kevin: they always die at the end of the day, and so on.
Kevin: Well, in Pikmin 4, they have introduced
Kevin: the nighttime expeditions for the first time
Kevin: ever you can actually go out at night.
Kevin: But it's not for a hard version of the game.
Kevin: Instead, it is kind of like a tower defense mode
Kevin: with Pikmin where you're given, like this kind of at-hill thing
Kevin: to protect and you have to fight off waves of enemies with.
Kevin: Specifically glow pickman a new kind of pigment which are green and kind of alien ghosty and they just float around
Kevin: and they're just
Kevin: Yeah, they're basic pickman that you know fight and gather enemies and increase their population but
Kevin: You don't even count like losses of glow pickman against your total loss because that's
Kevin: Statistics they can't keep track of how many pigment ever lost or off anyway, so so yeah, it
Kevin: You know, it's it's fine. I like tower defense. This one's okay. I haven't played the harder levels
Kevin: So maybe they get better, but they they've just been flying so far, but
Kevin: But they they I I've called them for trying something to wow
Kevin: And so yeah, so gameplay wise like exit the whole thing solid
Kevin: Um, there is something weird labor. Oh, yes, I would call it like in pigment 2 and to an extent 30
Kevin: Um, the...
Kevin: Kind of hint, like, understood meaning it was that you're on a post-apocalyptic earth basically.
Kevin: Um, that's why all the treasures and stuff here finding are just random earth stuff, normal everyday objects.
Kevin: But you never see people around.
Kevin: Um, but now the series has pivoted to, well, actually know the people are alive because at one point you enter a human household.
Kevin: You know, let's see the humans, but...
Kevin: it's clear like it's not abandoned or whatever like it's it's clearly in use so it just feels
Kevin: strange to go in that direction like to un- you know to un- end the world I guess.
Al: Is it not that this is not a different world?
Kevin: Yeah, so the all so the depictman characters are from different worlds. They're from
Kevin: Hokkotade and and kopai and different planets but the pickman world again was
Kevin: heavily understood to be some version of earth because you're finding um by one of the first
Kevin: objects you pick up and pickman for is a Game Boy Advance SP like it's very clear like oh these are
Kevin: earth centric um items and you at times you'll get you know like over a shot of the whole
Kevin: planet it's clearly you know there's the shapes of the continents and whatnot um but uh you know
Kevin: at certain points it looked like there was more ice or something like that but uh but yeah now
Kevin: Now let's screw up the wall.
Kevin: Not earth is fine and you can go inside a human household now. So yeah, I don't know. It's strange, but that's what it is
Kevin: Yeah, anyways, oh actually yeah, even came out the video unrelated to pigment for I don't know if you saw this out
Kevin: But they did like an animation short of becoming interacting with like a human baby
Kevin: Which is really weird
Kevin: Yeah, I don't get it. I don't know what I don't know if they're doing if it's gonna be really weird if we interact with people but
Al: I think that's just meant to be a marketing thing, and I don't think that's meant to be like anything more than that.
Kevin: But anyways, that's you know
Kevin: I guess so look this make me the fans we don't get stuff off and so you know we have to think we can get and then we stretch it but
Kevin: Yeah, that's big meant for like I said I mixed emotions, but overall I enjoyed it. Um, yeah, that's that's the main thing
Kevin: One day happened. I played masters. I got the 96 red. He's it's crazy. He's a weird art style, but
Kevin: He exists and whatever I can with happy. Um, anyways, oh, what about you? What's going on?
Al: Yeah, well, mostly mostly just being playing more Star Sound Island because, you know, this
Al: podcast, we'll talk about that later, but I've also been kind of continuing and trying
Al: to finish off the Home Decks for Pokemon Sword and Shield.
Al: I kind of got bored for a while because it's not super fun, but I got back into today.
Kevin: Mmm. That's it.
Al: I spent like two hours doing it today in Gottlake.
Al: 50 Pokemon, so I feel like if I like go really hard
Al: I can still get it done before Pocopia comes out, but let's be honest with Pocopia if I'm not done by then I will
Kevin: How far?
Al: I will not be continuing once Pocopia is
Kevin: Understandably everything stops in bakopia comes out. Understandably.
Kevin: But how far are you? Like, what's the percentage or x out of y?
Al: Let's let's have let's have a look at my exact numbers. I am at
Al: 1997 out of $597.com.
Al: It is, but I think if I don't play anything else in all my gaming time is just that, then I can probably do it, but that's the problem is that's a big if, like if I do that, I'm almost, I'm almost feeling like at this point I just kind of, and I could have done this all the long time.
Kevin: two turns up and um that's a tall order before pakopian. I'll be honest.
Kevin: Yeah, if you feel like it.
Al: I'm like, let me just transfer and poke them on and breed them because I feel like that will be quicker at this point.
Kevin: Yeah, I get that feeling I know that exact feeling up
Al: Because a lot of them are like, oh, I need a legit colo, okay, well, legit colo is only in shield fine, whatever, and is only in one place in the whole game, so it's either train up a low tide to elaborate a legit colo or catch it in the one place that it can be.
Al: Is one place in the wild area only when the weather is in that one place, a specific weather.
Kevin: That sounds correct.
Al: It has to be rainy.
Al: I don't know if I can be in the rate that weather only changes one every day, unless you, unless you date roll over, right, which I'm not doing because I can't be bothered.
Kevin: Oh yeah, that's right.
Al: So it's like at this point, I'm just like, I just do I just want to trade in a low tide, breed it.
Kevin: Yes. Yes.
Al: Three times and then train it up probably, but it's my word. It's just so and it's like, okay, the one that's really annoying me just now is the routes line because they can only be got in the wild area in fog.
Al: But only there are certain, only in certain places in fog, not other places in fog. There's like, there was one place that had fog today, but that's not a place that this spawns in fog. Okay, great.
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Al: There's literally nowhere else you can get this unless it's foggy. I don't understand why.
Kevin: That's right, that's why you should just never stop playing
Kevin: sword and she would play it every day. That's how it goes. Um,
Al: Well, the worst thing, the worst thing about this is I've done all this. I've done all of this for every single one of these Pokemon. I have already done it because I have the decks complete in the game. What did I do? Kevin, what did I do with the deck, the living decks I had in this game? What did I do with it?
Kevin: yeah.
Kevin: Oh, that that part, oh man, I can't even imagine how that feels because I've done, you know,
Kevin: Living Dexter too, but to know they're out there somewhere. Oh man
Al: This is why, this is why every game, no. I do the Living Decks as I play it.
Kevin: Do your oak decks
Kevin: You're crazy for that
Al: I don't necessarily do it as a walk, right? It doesn't have to be done as a walk. I didn't do a
Al: challenge in ZA, but I kept the Living Decks as I was going. Every area I catch, one of every
Al: Pokemon plus one of every evolution that it has, and then you just work through your way through
Al: it and as you're playing the game, you just have it. It's fun that way. Trying to do all
Al: you've done the game is not fun.
Kevin: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Kevin: I'm in your Pokemon game.
Kevin: Ow, that's the same game.
Al: So yeah, I don't know. Well, like tune in next week to find out if I have managed to do it,
Al: and I have finished, of course, as people are listening to this, I will know whether I've done it,
Al: because this releases the night before Pocopia comes out, but they will not know. Maybe the
Al: just like people will know. We'll see. Maybe I'll post this in the slide.
Al: I did Kevin. One other thing I've got is I got my code for
Kevin: Opia of all eyes. Oh. Oh. That feels. Yes.
Al: Procopia and it is preloaded on my switch to I am ready to go. And I actually have a
Al: really funny story about this. So I I ordered this on the Nintendo store because
Al: the Nintendo store had a digital preorder. They included a
Al: physical bonus item. Yeah, it was the one that I got. There were a few
Kevin: The little, the little bag, I think it was.
Al: different ones on the UK store. The one that I got was like a pencil case,
Al: basically. It calls itself a travel case, but it's essentially a pencil case. I
Al: don't know what other people would use it for. So a pencil case. On Wednesday, I
Al: I think it was, it did the pre-order charge you money.
Al: Thing which did go through it went through and my credit card got charged and the emailed me the code for the game
Al: Which I then put into my account and it registered on my console
Al: But then I got an email through
Al: I got an email through
Al: saying
Al: Let me get it
Al: I got an email through from Nintendo saying payment failure to your customer
Kevin: Uh oh, uh oh!
Al: Unfortunately, we were not able to process the payment for your order.
Al: We will try to reprocess the payment for days, please make sure your payment method is still valid and has enough balance available to change your payment method. Please log in and then it says relevant items and it just has the pencil case, not the game, which I will remind you was a free preorder bonus.
Kevin: Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Al: I just to confirm the payment process I can see it on my credit card and I go.
Al: I just got the download code for Procopia and this email does not say there was an issue with Procopia. It just says it was an issue with the pencil case or travel bag.
Kevin: Yeah, but you didn't
Kevin: Well, why didn't you pay the $3.99 for your PCopia case now?
Al: The zero pounds, zero pounds.
Kevin: Yep, that's correct. Oh
Kevin: That's good
Al: So it will be interesting to see what happens whether they actually ever send me this item or not, whether tomorrow because tomorrow is four days or maybe it will be Monday, maybe it's four working days.
Al: Tuesday, who knows, whatever four days.
Al: We interesting to see whether or not they try and charge me again or whether it just goes, Oh, we succeeded this time doesn't charge me anything.
Al: I'm just really fascinated to see what happens with this. It's such a weird situation.
Kevin: that's
Kevin: Yeah, I mean obviously but
Al: I don't think, no, you go.
Kevin: No, it's obviously that sounds like an issue from their side somehow they're trying to charge it or whatever
Kevin: That's that's wild. Oh, I hope you get it. There's nothing that aggravates me more than a pre-order bonus that I don't get it's happening before I don't like it
Al: Yeah, I mean, the good thing is this was the cheapest way to buy it as well. I wasn't finding anywhere cheaper
Al: So it's not the end of the world and I just chose this because like none of the other pre-order bonuses looked interesting to me
Al: This is the only one that I was like I could see myself using this
Al: So that's why I went first specifically. I just like the fact there's a pre-order bonus physical pre-order bonus for a digital game. I like that
Kevin: sure sure sure
Kevin: Yeah, that's that's pretty dank cool. Um
Kevin: Man, that's that's for aggravating me. I hope you get it. I the one that haunts me to this day
Al: Me too.
Kevin: Was Phoenix Wright three. I was like back in high school. I pre ordered through game stop
Kevin: I was supposed to get a Phoenix Wright plushie that would say objection when he squeezed him
Kevin: As far as we start to do.
Kevin: I didn't get any and I didn't get my pre-order bonus and that's to be me.
Kevin: Anyways, hope you get your ditto back.
Al: We will see what happens
Al: Right, I think that's everything. That's what we've been up to
Al: whoo
Kevin: Wooooo!
Al: All right, so we have some feedback. We got our message through on our feedback form on our website, which you can find at
Al: harvest season.club
Al: shivers has sent us a message
Kevin: I'm which. Oh, that's our name. Hello, shivers. Ah, people listen to us. Uh-huh.
Al: shivers. The shivers have said the draft is such a fun idea.
Al: I think Cody has this one, even after blowing the top off our curve with the Honda Joclet here.
Kevin: Oh my god. Yeah, yeah, kind of. Yeah. Oh. I make a Wednesday.
Al: Kevin is more likely to see Superstu's story this year,
Al: which both, which I find a funny sentence to mean because obviously it's saying that like
Al: Honda Joclet here is very unlikely to do it, but also I think they're also saying the Superstu's story is unlikely as well, just less unlikely than on the Joclet here.
Kevin: Why? They're right, they're right. Why did I think neverway was already out?
Al: They
Al: continue. Joclet here is concerned. It's a song of ice and fire or sorry, a song of fire and ice. That's the is at the final Game of Thrones book. Is that what it is?
Kevin: Yeah, I think probably, yeah, it sounds right.
Al: Let's have a jet.
Al: I I was listening to a podcast where they were talking about Game of Thrones because there was a new TV series that came out recently. It was in the universe.
Kevin: It is.
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: They were suggesting that.
Al: The actually the book is very much is probably very much like the final season of the TV and he's delayed it because people didn't like it
Kevin: Yeah, that's a prevalent theory I
Al: And so and so he's actually he's probably got it in his will that he's kind of they're gonna publish the book after he dies
Kevin: Was not bother rewriting it just sitting on its nobody yells it if oh that's a play
Al: Yeah, I love this theory. I love this theory
Kevin: That's good. I like that. I haven't heard that spin. I like that. He's just gonna leave it bad. Oh, yeah
Al: Yeah
Al: Shivers continues
Al: Chocolateier
Al: Sorry, so I said that but chocolateier's continued. It's Song of Fire and I say okay, maybe not that bad
Al: But let's see if it drops before the next Nintendo system have a good harvest y'all
Kevin: Mmm. Oh, that's mean. That's mean.
Al: The next so that without I think even in my most negative scenario
Al: I can't see it not being released in eight years
Kevin: Switch to was was it this year? No, it's last was the last last year technically only. Yeah, 2020 high
Al: There was eight years. Oh, it was last year. It was eight years
Al: 2025 minus 2017 that is eight years. It was over eight years between the switch and switch to coming out
Kevin: Yeah, yeah
Al: So if we assume the same thing
Kevin: Yeah, cuz
Al: That's saying plus eight that's saying that it wouldn't be out until you know the second half of 20 33
Kevin: 2032 no
Al: That is a very very pessimistic take
Kevin: That's mean yeah, oh that's good
Kevin: Um
Al: I think we're already being pessimistic when we say before after 20 30
Kevin: Yeah, absolutely, um, yeah, I yeah, that's funny
Al: Thank you Shivers for your feedback if you want to defend your feedback you can do so our website, please do and we will read it on the
Kevin: Thank you
Al: Podcast unless you say something rude about me
Kevin: No, especially, especially that.
Al: Kevin, I know what you released last month you specifically
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: Oh, what did I release a lot of germs?
Al: It was a very quiet month. We got stars and island and we got tiny garden on switch. That's it. That's the entire month
Kevin: I heard about that game.
Kevin: That's, wow.
Kevin: Oh, oh, okay.
Kevin: I think, you know what, let's talk about at least one of these games on this episode.
Al: it sounds like a plan. All right, let's talk about some news. First up, we have seeds
Kevin: Just to stretch the segment now.
Al: of calamity have released their fourth major update. It is out now. It includes faster
Al: movement speed, bombs, more decorations, large chests, and new adorable companion, a fox if you want to
Kevin: That's a wild
Kevin: area
Kevin: Those large chests are square um
Al: know. They are very, very chunky. It's seeds of calamity. It's one of the, you're rebuilding
Kevin: Yeah, let's see here. Um, I'm trying what this game is but um
Kevin: Movement speed. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. Oh goodness
Al: after a great calamity tape. It's a starchy leg.
Kevin: - Well, yeah.
Kevin: - Yeah, yeah, I see, yeah.
Kevin: Bombs, that's a big one, I guess.
Kevin: Okay, are we still in early acts?
Kevin: Yeah, it is, okay, not explain it.
Al: Yeah, it's early access, yeah.
Kevin: I mean, we're caught at score, of course,
Kevin: it's early acts, it's just, um, cool.
Al: Mm-hmm. Wow.
Kevin: Good for them, they can move faster,
Kevin: take that to the good times.
Kevin: [laughing]
Al: Next, we have the ranchers, next, first update, and it adds in some control and camera updates
Kevin: It's getting.
Al: with some quality of life improvements.
Al: Plus, they are removing all their AI-generated stuff from the game, so specifically, they
Kevin: Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh goodness.
Kevin: Good work.
Al: they had NPC phone call voiceovers.
Kevin: Oh, not a, not a voice, aw, come on.
Kevin: You, the dev team could do that themselves, aw, come on.
Al: Replaced with dialogue style audio cues. That's like those grunts. She gets right presumably
Kevin: - Okay, fine, yes, thank you.
Al: Removed the NPC dialogue Q&A mechanic for visitors and resident NPCs. So it's not like tech if they've done like AI generated text dialogue for
Kevin: Oh yeah, do you think some racist nonsense was coming out?
Al: I don't think it was AI generated within the game.
Al: I think they just got an LLM to like get them a bunch of dialogue.
Kevin: uh let's put the prompt, it's no copy pasted, gotcha.
Al: Yeah, I think that's all is replaced loading screens with the main game illustration.
Al: So that was probably some AI art there.
Kevin: Oh, yeah
Al: Removed all AI generated artworks, including well paintings.
Al: And the best one replaced AI-generated car radio music.
Al: Which is, which the that one in particular is funny because it's like, they're not even
Kevin: Oh my goodness, that's a lot of element
Al: like, oh, this is saving us time. That one was just saving the money because they replaced it with
Al: licensed music, which of course leads into some fun issues where there might be some copyright
Kevin: - Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: - Whoa.
Al: issues for streaming because it's licensed music. They've said they're working on a solution for that.
Kevin: - Mm-hmm, out of the pot.
Kevin: - Oh goodness.
Kevin: I mean, there's, there is a solution.
Kevin: It's biological, 'cause hey, a music person
Kevin: do the music, but you know, it's clearly not their first idea,
Kevin: there's go-to strategy, I guess.
Al: So the comments on this are very much half and half of people saying, oh, this is a good decision to remove it and people saying, why did you remove it?
Kevin: oh I met oh we haven't run into I think anything this AI heavy on the show before
Al: Yeah, this is this is pretty chunky this
Al: They were I think we don't need to get into the the ethical discussion around it, right?
Al: Like I don't think I don't think trying to convince anyone that is right or wrong will convince anybody right like
Kevin: Yeah
Al: People have their opinions and mostly will stick to their opinions on that. I think it's interesting
Al: The pressure has actually led to them changing things because this is obviously going to give them more work and their
Al: The obviously decided that the amount of work that they have to do is is less than the
Al: Blowback they're getting for having it
Al: Which is interesting because I hadn't seen anything about this until they posted a bit
Al: I was because I've not played the game yet, and I was not aware
Kevin: Yeah
Al: This was a thing in the game
Kevin: No, um
Kevin: Called the ranchers. I don't um, yeah, I and like
Kevin: Looking at this game like oh, how what this gently? This is not fields of mystery, right? I don't know how huge this community is so
Kevin: Like I don't know who's developing it. I don't know how much direct feedback. They're getting etc. Etc
Kevin: That's wild to see though.
Al: And yeah, and I'm also interested to how these things like there's a demo to the game
Al: So that must be how people are aware of these things, right? Because it's not even out in early access yet
Al: Although somehow it's in my steam library already. I don't know how I
Kevin: Oh, what?
Al: Must have kickstarted this
Kevin: Oh, sick.
Al: Yeah, many thoughts. I'm not sure there's a huge amount of
Al: benefit of continuing to discuss that the whole bit.
Kevin: Yeah, I'm just that's a lot of elements. That's like, okay, well, I'm giving them a thumbs up. I'm baffled by how we got here, but cool
Al: Like it's yeah, it's very interesting. Um, yeah, there you go.
Al: There you go, as you say.
Al: The music one is particularly funny because like,
Al: I don't think I've heard a piece of AI music
Al: that hasn't like just really grated with my ears.
Kevin: Yeah
Al: Like, even if there's even if there's quite often elements
Al: that are like, okay, that's like a catchy riff or whatever.
Al: But like the whole music as a whole, just like this,
Al: there's something about them that just feels wrong, you know?
Kevin: - Yeah.
Al: And you can, 'cause, and then it's not just like,
Al: Oh, it's AI there for.
Al: I don't like it. It's like when you hear AI music and you didn't know it was AI before,
Al: you can hear there's AI and you're like, oh, that's some horrible AI music, right?
Al: It's just like so clearly the case.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, I agree. Oh
Al: Next up, we have bocopia. There was two things, two things for bocopia recently.
Al: And that is the earlier this week, as we were recording, this is Saturday,
Al: 28 February. Earlier.
Al: This week, there was a one hour long tree house video where they went into some more details and then of course we had a new trailer with some new information on things and the Pokemon presents as well.
Al: Kevin, what do you want to talk about first?
Kevin: Okay, I haven't seen I haven't seen the tree house so tell me about it
Al: So most of it is kind of just stuff that we already knew and just like showing it in more detail.
Al: What I did find interesting is there's multiple times. So you know how you're starting that
Al: area that's like surrounded by cliffs on all sides.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, you're in little like Molly paved can you think yeah
Al: Yeah, they very much limited themselves to that area and we're clearly telling us that they
Al: were doing that to not spoil surprises. There was a point
Al: where there was a pigeon, you get a dosing machine, which will show you where items are,
Al: but you have to use a Pokemon with the dosing machine, so they were using a pigeon that was then
Al: showing you where the hidden items were. Which is this cool, but when they started going towards where
Al: the pigeon wanted them to go, it was taking them up to the top of the cliff, and they would not do that.
Al: They said, we're not going to do that because we don't want to spoil it. And I'm like, whoa.
Kevin: I don't want to show the dead greener hanging from the parachute.
Al: They didn't want to throw us outside of this valley, and I'm like, what is it that they're not
Al: wanting to show us that's right outside of this valley? Because it's not like we haven't seen
Al: stuff out of the valley. Because they've shown us in trailers, they've shown us like the water,
Al: and the dragonite, and the lat person stuff like that. So it's not the concept that there is a bigger
Al: world. We know about that. So there's something specific that is just out of sight from the first
Kevin: Yup, you know, I mean, I think I nailed it. It's pretty pretty clear to me.
Al: area that they don't want us to see.
Al: So that would very much change the concept of the game.
Kevin: Corpse is out there, man.
Kevin: Yeah, well.
Al: Imagine you start playing this with your young child because it's such a lovely little
Al: Pokemon game.
Al: I find you playing some dead bodies a lot more.
Kevin: Look, it's gonna be, the opening is gonna be the Hello Kitty opening, but they're gonna play it straight.
Al: So yeah, they showed us a bunch of other things as well, like they showed us how their farming
Al: works, they showed us interacting with the Pokemon.
Al: The Pokemon seem to be very much like self-gating, like they will just do things while you're
Al: not dealing with them and they will sometimes come up to you and talk to you because they
Al: want to do something with you.
Kevin: Okay, so kind of
Al: So it definitely feels quite lived in which is good.
Kevin: Okay, almost called to the lambi
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, it kind of like that.
Al: Yeah, so it feels like the Pokemon have like once and needs and they will make it clear
Al: to you and it's not just like they just sit in their corner waiting for you to talk to them.
Kevin: Stick. That's what I want.
Al: They will do things, they will even, there was a point where they went over to one because
Al: they wanted to do with talk to our Pokemon and the Pokemon was having a conversation with
Al: another Pokemon.
Al: So yeah, that seems really nice, it seems like it will be fun.
Al: where else this should be.
Al: But I don't know whether that was just for that one and other ones might take longer.
Kevin: Ooh. Okay.
Al: They showed us the Pokemon center being rebuilt and they said that what they were showing as there was much faster than in the real game.
Al: And it took maybe like three minutes in game. So I don't, you know, kind of, they were just saying that that was much faster than normal.
Al: So that's interesting. I don't, I think if it's like, if it is sort of like 15 minutes as like the max, then that feels fine to me. I think what will annoy me is if things start taking hours.
Kevin: Yeah
Kevin: Or, you know, yeah, that's a question right are we getting into animal crossing where I have to territory where you have to turn off the game because it's got nothing to do to tomorrow
Al: Ortiz, yeah.
Al: I would be surprised if that was the case, especially as it looks like you get like the,
Al: so you've got like him on channel that gives you the terraforming ability.
Al: It looks like you can get that very quickly from why I can see.
Al: So like even if you have to wait for other things, they'll at least be that.
Al: You can deal with which that opens up the world quite a lot, right?
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, okay. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not I I just I don't think we'll see that either. I'm just you know, just praising
Al: The other, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Al: I think once things take an hour, I'm getting annoyed.
Al: If things take a day, I think that changes things for me.
Al: And I don't think it'll be that bad.
Kevin: Going from a 12 10 out of 10 to an 11 out of 10 and then
Al: So the other couple of things they showed is where how you know how to get certain Pokémon.
Al: Pokémon will have specific habitats to show up.
Al: Like we saw them in the trailers before we've seen them like creating like watering grass and then Pokémon will jump out of the grass.
Al: There's lots of different kinds of habitats they call them, which is like there's just having four pieces of grass together as a habitat.
Al: There's having him on chance one was a bench with a boxing...
Al: There were things like a rock with five pieces of grass round.
Al: It sounds like there's a lot of different habitats that you have to build to get the different Pokémon.
Al: And the game kind of gives you hints towards what they might be.
Al: And then once you've done one, it kind of goes into like a deck of sorts where you're like this is now.
Kevin: Yeah, this man, like I've been so, you know, freaking out about the dragon quick I spilled
Al: I know have a list of all the habitats I've created and what I did.
Kevin: their aspects like I haven't thought about like the Pokemon aspects. How big is this deck
Kevin: going to be? You know, I assume there's a legendary or two that you'll have to build a very specific
Kevin: habitat for, um, or something like that.
Al: We did get confirmation that Legendre's are in the game and the video and the presents.
Kevin: Right.
Al: So, yeah, that's presumably going to be really hard to get, right?
Kevin: Yeah, probably like end or post game content, probably.
Al: So the other big thing, so there was a small thing which was that confirmation we got that you're all your items are stored inside.
Kevin: Oh, dang, man, I'll go.
Kevin: I'll, I'll, I'll.
Al: You need your body because they showed, when you open the inventory, they pointed out that the inventory is shaped like a detour and they said that's because you're storing everything inside you.
Kevin: Yeah, Stockpile split up baby!
Kevin: All.
Al: They explicitly said that on the tree eyes.
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: Existential horror of your X-ray inventory. Yes.
Al: So, yeah, absolutely love it. It's fantastic. More of that, please.
Kevin: All.
Al: Two other things one is that you have pp to do
Al: the moves and you regain pp by eating so it's just kind of there's a stamina basically
Kevin: Oh, you know, probably help if they do it super, sorta, or that, all right, well, that is
Al: >> And- >> [INAUDIBLE]
Kevin: interesting.
Kevin: Yeah, okay.
Kevin: Wow.
Kevin: See, that's neat because I gives you more of a reason to farm or whatever, right?
Kevin: Cause like in Dragon Quest builders, technically you need to food and whatever, but eventually
Kevin: you like made it so much or so automatically like it was a non-factual thought, maybe
Kevin: you'll get there too.
Kevin: It's not the thing.
Al: Probably Yeah, there were there were berry trees, which I think is how you get it early game
Kevin: Let's think about it first.
Al: But presumably the stuff you grow will give you more more ppp back than the berries off the trees
Kevin: Oh, I'm so sorry for the skin.
Kevin: Alright, bye.
Al: The well the last thing that it was in the treehouse that want to talk about is the online stuff
Al: So there's two online things
Al: One of which the we already knew about which is that you
Al: can visit other people's islands and you think
Al: can do that without having to be like
Kevin: which Dragon Quest Builders did.
Al: "Oh, let's use your world, Kevin, right? We can just have a shared one"
Kevin: Yeah. Oh, wait. I thought you meant like just open to the public share. Do you mean you can
Al: because then you don't have to be online. I can go and play when I'm online and then you can go and play when you're online
Al: which I really like.
Kevin: create, we can create an island just for us? Whoa. Oh, that's crazy. That's the, that was one of
Al: Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's what they were saying pretty certain. That's what they were saying
Kevin: That's probably...
Al: They did not show us that process. They didn't show us how that worked
Al: But certainly what they were saying heavily implied that it's a
Al: Like a Minecraft realm where you can just be like this is for our friends
Kevin: that's incredible because like that's probably the biggest flawed
Kevin: rank was that builders are like
Kevin: I made a second file so I could have something to play with Calvin so we could hang out and do
Kevin: an island together because I didn't want him, you know, touching my main island because you know that was my thing
Al: Of course not. Yep.
Kevin: So oh, that's
Kevin: Was this game getting better?
Al: They also, when they went into this online world, they said, "This is pallet tone. This is our pallet tone."
Kevin: Ooh. Well.
Al: No, I don't know whether they were just saying that because they built one that was kind of like it and like you can, but that, but I don't think it was because they hadn't done any building up of things there.
Kevin: Yeah. That's my guess.
Al: And he definitely sounded like they were implying that this is actually pallet tone.
Kevin: So dragon quest builders they had certain online islands where basically people would share their islands or creations or like certain areas.
Kevin: And so I thought that's what we're going to do and I could see like, you know, welcome on or Nintendo or boy thing, however, the developers themselves creating pallet town and saying, hey, here's pallets on island everyone can check it out.
Kevin: Um, I wonder because I could see it either way
Kevin: maybe they just made a palitone for the tree house.
Kevin: Um, what? Maybe there is palitone on island on, on, on, in the game we'll see.
Al: Yeah, I think you could, I think you could read what they said either way, but I certainly when I was
Al: listening to it initially, I got the implication that this was like a standard world you could create
Al: that is pallet time. But we will, we will see I guess. Yeah, this is, I mean, the three house is certainly
Kevin: I'm so excited for this game out.
Al: increased my excitement for this game. I think this game is looking a lot bigger than I expect.
Kevin: Oh, I'm so happy and I didn't even watch the treehouse. I was already pumped
Kevin: I mean from you know the game, but I did watch the Pokemon day presents and I got excited with that
Al: Tell me what excites you about that then.
Kevin: DJ wrote on
Kevin: Probably the best road on form to ever exists and
Kevin: This, wait, wait, wait of 2026. This is the game.
Kevin: It's not even an actual Pokemon game to introduce one of the features I've wanted above all in the mainline series of game a bloody jukebox
Kevin: Let me play. I'm gonna play Pokemon games for 300 hours. Let me pick the song. I want to listen to at least. Oh my gosh
Al: Yeah, and this is such a fun way to do it.
Kevin: Is it that hard?
Kevin: Yes
Kevin: Yes, cuz DJ rotom is a great character and idea and it's
Kevin: functionality, lots of perfect. I love you, DJ.
Al: I think, yeah, I think it's great. Um, and if a fun way to do it, right, rather than just being like,
Al: oh, here's a jukebox, it's like, no, here's, here's our new Ruto inform. That's really fun.
Kevin: Yeah, and and now he's never going to show up in the main games and I'm always going to hold them against, you know, wind waves. I'm holding that against you forever.
Al: [laughter]
Kevin: Um, well, then I'm wrong and they get bonus points prove me wrong. I'd love to see that.
Al: What if he does?
Kevin: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Al: We've also got Chef Greedant or Cook Greedant.
Al: But well, so yeah, interesting.
Al: So, well, yes.
Al: So they called it Greedant Cook Form.
Al: And then said, but everyone calls them Chef Denty,
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, well, it is
Al: a weird thing to say.
Al: Like, introduce him with a name and then give him another name,
Al: immediately.
Kevin: Yeah, so when at that part I wasn't actually looking at the screen
Kevin: I just heard it and I heard chef and I was very confused because I'd seen the greeting
Kevin: I just like why are they calling him intake, but then no, no dente. Oh
Al: Ah. Oh. Dending. Yeah. So we got cooking as well.
Kevin: Or the aforementioned stamina good good good
Al: Something to do with your crops as well. Another, another deck to complete, presumably.
Kevin: Yep, and it's green and I love green and oh
Kevin: Yeah
Kevin: Man all the dishes
Kevin: You know, I never talked about it, but I I'd eat that curry croissant from from art and Z a
Al: Look, I would try it at least once. I'm not saying I would enjoy it but I would try it once.
Kevin: Put that in the game. Yeah
Kevin: Well, maybe it served me up one of those chef dente
Kevin: The Dynamax curry at least that one
Kevin: I'm so excited. Oh, that's good. Oh
Al: We also got confirmation that in the shared worlds you can like turn yourself into a prop and play hide and seek because it's prop, it's prop on to poke them on prop hunt.
Kevin: Oh, part baby!
Kevin: Yeah, that's so good signing.
Al: You expected that.
Kevin: Not me, I didn't expect.
Kevin: Well, I would have dreamt, but never expected.
Kevin: Oh, it's insane.
Kevin: It's okay, so much.
Kevin: I wonder how, like, I'm so excited because that rewards me for filling up my island with junk,
Kevin: which I never get the feeling.
Al: Oh, Kevin, I just saw the transformation into Dragonite, and that was so smooth, they jumped
Al: off a cliff, pressed the button and transformed into Dragonite without missing a beat.
Kevin: - Yeah.
Al: That is so smooth, I enjoyed that very much.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: I'm so, oh, I wonder what like the final
Kevin: face formation is gonna be,
Kevin: 'cause you know they're gonna build up to something big.
Kevin: Oh, it's gonna be, or Aglim.
Al: Ray Quasar and then you can go into space and it's actually even bigger. There's Gala
Kevin: Oh, now we're not like how you're thinking now.
Kevin: This is good, this is good.
Al: Look, we got to get disappointed somehow, right?
Kevin: Or, or.
Kevin: I mean, the ultimate is they don't transform their arches and we see how far the power can go, but yeah, you know, yeah.
Al: Kevin the crafting table has bulk crafting.
Kevin: Oh, yeah, it was century over.
Al: That's why they added the town of a crossing because they're like,
Al: we can't have Pokemon having bulk crafting before we do.
Kevin: People said Hulk 'em on moved her wind waves moved to get out of GTA's way. No, no, they moved to get out of pakopia's way
Kevin: Hey get in same years this masterpiece get out of here wind wits
Al: Oh, I just remembered.
Al: So, you know how I had said that they were specifically not showing us past the starting area.
Kevin: Yeah
Al: They also did not go into the Pokemon center that they rebuilt.
Al: For the same reason they said we don't want to spoil it.
Kevin: Oh
Al: So what is in the Pokemon center?
Al: What's in the Pokemon center?
Al: That they don't want to spoil.
Kevin: The partners they're showing the truth. Everything that goes in there. It's just a furnace and they give you new ones
Al: I'm really fascinated and it's really nice. Like, I'm just seeing like all the watching
Al: this again in silent. And I'm just seeing all the Pokemon reacting to things like they
Al: built. So one of the people went off to do something else and they gave the other people
Al: who were playing a challenge to see what they could build in 10 minutes. And then when
Al: they came back, they'd build this little house, which was cute little house. And there
Al: It was just a Makahita standing there saying, "This is a nice place."
Al: Like he just, he'd register that they had built a house.
Kevin: Yeah
Kevin: Yeah, that's the stuff on top. I mean that's trying to quest builders like that's they got that down pat
Kevin: But oh, you hear a maku he just saying that oh
Kevin: Zett matters the game of my dreams done
Al: This is the thing it like I'm not I'm not I'm seeing
Al: Yes, we know that this was obviously
Al: Dragon Quest builders like and could therefore be very good everything I'm seeing confirms that this is built very similarly to it
Al: All the water so they built a channel from the sea and the water went in and then like slowly
Kevin: work oh no cutered out yeah yeah oh that's what I want
Al: But the water like because they hadn't built it down far enough the water just like
Al: In a little bit until it ran out of space and
Al: Presumably then if they put it down further the water would go further. This is excellent. I'm so excited for this game given
Kevin: I'm jealous of our listeners cause they're closer to it than we are right now.
Al: In fact, if they're not listening to this the night it goes out then they're probably listening to it and playing
Kevin: Oh, it's over.
Al: Like they could probably could be playing right now if they're not listening the night comes in
Kevin: They could, oh, I'm so jealous of you listening or playing right now.
Al: There's also lots of little touches like I'd noticed that they so roto tiller, which is what they use for making like
Al: Tilling the ground
Al: It has multiple other effects. So they the one they showed us was you can use it to pick up
Al: Plants or flowers and move them to a different place
Al: um
Al: So it's just like being able to
Al: Not just you know without harvesting it. They're like literally scooping it up and putting it into a different place
Al: If you put your flowers in the wrong place you can use the same thing that tells the ground
Al: You're using instead
Al: To move where you'd
Al: Sewen something which is both a nice quality of life improvement, but it's also just like a really nice touch
Kevin: Incredible. Oh
Kevin: Details caring about the detail poke. Oh, I couldn't have
Al: This game needs to be successful.
Al: We need them to know that this is what people want, right?
Kevin: There is a non-zero chance. I'm gonna buy more than one copy of this game
Kevin: Maybe to get it to someone, but no, I'd be I already know I'm buying at least two copies because I'm not gonna have their own
Kevin: But I'm just saying
Kevin: This and Kirby air rise. That's it. I'm done. I don't need any other game ever the boy world
Al: Oh, there was one other, I don't know whether we knew this before, but we know now that the, you can game share this game, which is a nice touch, but...
Kevin: That's--
Al: but... the biggest news about that is you can game share to a Switch one.
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: Oh, my goodness.
Kevin: This game's more perfect by the second.
Al: So like, for example, if I want to play this game with my son, we only have one switch
Al: too, but I can game-shade it to his switch light and we can play it together.
Al: I did see some people complaining about that and the reason they were complaining about
Al: this, which is just such a stupid thing, is like, so it can run on the switch one then.
Kevin: Come on.
Al: I'm like, I'm sorry. What? I don't think
Al: the reason it's on Switch2 and not Switch1 is because it can't work on Switch1. I think it's because they
Al: built a first wedge too. They've given you this feature that allows you to be able to play it on a
Al: Switch1 and you're complaining. What? I'm very excited for this game and it is out this week.
Kevin: I can't believe it.
Kevin: We're the next recording episode,
Kevin: whatever this show, it's going to be a new world out.
Kevin: We're approaching that meme of the future
Kevin: with this perfect utopia of the flying cars.
Al: Alright, is that everything POCOPIA then this week?
Kevin: So close.
Kevin: Yes, I just need it now.
Al: I'm sure POCOPIA will be a recurring segment on this episode, on this body.
Kevin: Right, right into my veins, please.
Kevin: Thank you.
Kevin: possibly.
Kevin: the only segment, what?
Kevin: It's all it matters.
Kevin: Cheers.
Al: We have we have one final piece of news and that is the
Kevin: Sorry haunt the chocolate tear.
Kevin: You didn't come up.
Al: Concerned it released a 10th anniversary video for a starchy valley and it was quite fun
Al: I would highly recommend people watch it. It's 20 minutes long and he goes through
Al: Like some old builds of the game, so he has one which was when it was called Sprout Valley
Al: back in 2012 and then he does a couple of other ones. He does one that
Al: is 2013 I think, and then 2014, and does he do a 2015 one? Yeah, he does a couple in 2015.
Al: And there's lots of things in there that are fun, like the sprite valley one, the graphics look
Al: really bad and stuff like that, but that like he talks about that, and then you just see the
Al: graphics progress up. But what's really interesting is I think was it the bus looks almost identical
Al: in the first build that he has, as it does now, which is really
Kevin: as is priorities.
Al: fascinating, really fascinating. What I find really interesting about this as
Al: well is there was lots of ideas that he had implemented that he then got rid of because he didn't
Al: think they were good enough. So for example, the mines were originally generated, which he then decided
Al: that instead of that he wanted them to be all manually designed. Obviously they are randomly selected
Al: as you go down the mines but each of them is specifically designed.
Kevin: Okay
Al: Also you could mine through the walls in the mine at one point
Kevin: What that's crazy
Al: to access other areas. Fascinatingly kept that out. I'm wondering why the other thing that I'm
Al: so sad that we never got in the final game. Underground, what did he call them?
Al: I'd give me two seconds let me double check, I'm going to say the right thing.
Al: an underground goblin village.
Kevin: All right, yeah, I saw that one that all that that's a shame we didn't get that work. That would a cool idea
Al: I'm fascinated as to what reasons, because he says, he does say after he shows this.
Al: Remember that, you know, yes, he says, I don't regret it, just because something sounds
Al: cool, just because the idea is cool, doesn't mean that it's going to be fun or is going
Al: to be the right idea in practice.
Kevin: Yes, it does, that's it, I'll clear what it means.
Al: So I'm really interested, I'm really interested as to why, after he'd implemented this,
Al: and he played yesterday, he went, no, and not know, as in this needs improvements, but
Al: no, as in, no, we're done.
Al: This is not happening, and I wonder if he'll ever revisit these ideas.
Kevin: Yeah, it's all tons of chocolate here.
Al: I mean, well, yeah, I mean, you might be right.
Al: Some of these ideas might well go into onto Jocletier, because they were ideas that he had,
Al: and then felt that this wasn't the right place for them, but a different game was, maybe.
Al: Anyway, the big news, the big news.
Kevin: - Yeah, we'll see.
Kevin: Shame.
Kevin: - Ah, I can't believe I'm on this episode.
Kevin: I'm so excited.
Al: Is that we got the names of the new marriage candidates in 1.7, and they are, he opens
Kevin: Literally a physical envelope be yeah, I had it and opened it
Al: them up, and the face of paper says, Clint and Sandy, and I mean, Clint is the funniest
Kevin: And we're like
Kevin: Well, I'm over your screaming. She's like coward
Al: option.
Al: I'm really fascinated to know, like, I feel like I need to romance Clint, because
Al: to see how his story progresses, does he get redemption, or does he, like, go for you
Al: because he can't get Emily?
Al: Like, I really need to know what the deal is, because no one else in the game is obsessed
Al: with someone else like he is.
Kevin: Believe it was you who said on discord. You can't wait to see him call you that mentally by accident during the vows
Al: Yeah, I was making a friend's reference there if anyone wasn't aware.
Kevin: That's what I want and that's yeah, that's what I want. Yeah, that's what I want. Yeah, that's what I want
Al: I couldn't take the Emily.
Kevin: Yeah, um
Kevin: I
Kevin: Yeah, Clint like I'm curious to see like how he's going to be
Kevin: redeemed I think
Kevin: Concerned date has gone on record saying that's what kind of what he wants.
Kevin: It's new. It's fine. It's fine. Concerned date. Just let us hate them. Just let the hate flow. It's fine, but I'll joking aside. I think it's cool. Is this our first time getting candidates added?
Al: [laughter]
Al: No, Emily was added in one of the updates along with, you're all supposed to.
Kevin: Emily, Emily wasn't there from the beginning. That's crazy.
Al: Yeah, correct. I think it was 1.4. Let me double check. Of course, the problem is I'm trying to
Kevin: It's pretty crazy.
Al: Google this and all I get is the 1.7 stuff because that's all anyone's talking about just now.
Kevin: And yeah, ha, ha.
Al: Oh, here we go. The starchy wiki, you will save me. 1.1, I did Shane and Emily as marriage candidates.
Kevin: that's crazy that they weren't there from the beginning, but okay. Well, okay, that's well, I mean,
Al: I think that's the only one
Kevin: that's still a while ago, but that's it's cool to see new candidates this far in at least,
Kevin: let's say that. The other candidate that we didn't even mention, because as all our attention,
Kevin: I'm Sandy, now when I find intriguing, because that's gold.
Al: Yeah yeah also she doesn't live in the village so that's an interesting one as well.
Kevin: That's a late one relatively speaking.
Kevin: Yep, yep.
Kevin: She's probably the least developed character out of any candidate now, I would say.
Kevin: So that would be cool to see.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: I, I genuinely might, wait, do we have a date for this yet?
Al: No, we'd know we don't.
Kevin: Or do you know, window?
Kevin: Well, I'd be interested in doing a new map just in
Kevin: going for Sandy a little like more bit bit that's not a real name so I'd like to
Kevin: find out her real name I don't own his motivating me
Al: Yeah, I'm certainly I'm intrigued by both of these
Al: Do I actually want to put in the effort for either of them? We'll see
Al: We shall see I will have to have I will not sully any of my existing
Al: Serious saves with romance in clint. So if I'm doing it, I will be creating a new one purely for that purpose just for the fund
Kevin: Yep. Oh
Al: I have also not romanced any of the male characters before
Al: So that would be
Kevin: Yeah, Sandy gonna shop for the spring dance now, right?
Al: a change from if I did that, many questions, many questions, let's see how it goes, I guess.
Kevin: I mean, and no answers. Thanks. It's a darn day.
Al: Also, just for a full completion before somebody is like, "Oh, you forgot about this?"
Al: Yes, Crowbus was added as a roommate in 1.4, but it's technically not marriage, so it's not the same.
Kevin: Oh yeah, forgot about that, it's big. Take me to the Crobus Village.
Al: But yeah, that was 1.4 that I was
Kevin: It's a certain day. That's why I want that. It's a good idea to do it.
Al: Hm-hmm, Honda chocolate here.
Al: [laughs]
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah, you know what? Crobus is up there for people who can record.
Al: Let's have Honda chocolate here be in the past,
Al: and we get to find out about the war
Al: between the shadow beings and the dwarves.
Kevin: It was all over. It was all about the chocolate. That's what it's all about. I'm done for that.
Al: [laughs]
Al: Absolutely.
Kevin: Um, man. Oh, man. It's more hyped than the game will ever be. I'm ruining it for me.
Al: All right. That's the news. All right. Now we need to talk about Starstand Island. It's
Kevin: We did it, whoa.
Al: so late for for listeners. We recorded the greenhouse episode before this episode and it was
Kevin: Tell me about we behind the
Al: a long greenhouse episode. So it's been a it's been a long it's been a long recording session.
Al: All right. We're going to talk about Starstand Island. So quick introduction to this
Al: game. It is a very much a stardry-like but 3D and like I mean proper 3D none of this.
Al: Or it's 3D because it has 3D graphics. Now it's not a 3D game. Thank you very much.
Kevin: Turn the camera.
Al: Yes, you can turn the camera. You can there there are you can jump which is a key aspect for me.
Kevin: Oh, it's a big one. Yeah, but you can do sick k-port
Al: Yeah, we'll get we'll get to that we'll get to that. I have a little section for that.
Al: But just yeah as introduction it is a 3D stardry-like and that is probably all you need to know
Al: to start to know what this game is. And I think a lot of people probably look at this thing
Al: think it looks quite generic. It can have like a heartopia or something like that and let me tell you
Al: it's it's it's not it's pretty good. I have some grapes and I have some things that have
Al: less interested than me and I think there's a few things they would need to improve. But I think
Al: overall this is a good game. I'm enjoying it. Like as of this point like I could see this being
Al: one of my games of the year. But obviously that massively depends on what else. Obviously
Kevin: Okay.
Al: Pocopia is going to be better. Right. We all know that. But like I it feels like at this point
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Did you bring it up?
Al: in time based on what we think might be coming out this year. I could see this being
Al: three nominations that I bring in December. That's kind of where I'm sitting. It's not going to be the
Al: one that I want to win. That would probably be Pocopia at this point. Even and I've not even played
Kevin: Yeah, just a nor will it win
Al: that game yet. But if you're not looking for the stardry-like then you're not looking here.
Al: Right. Like this is it's going to give you everything that you expect from a stardry-like.
Al: but that is both good and bad right and we will many
Al: mention those things as we go. Visuals-wise, it's fine looking, especially if you
Al: go in one of the higher graphics settings. I would kind of think of it if you've seen
Al: any of the more recent Harvest Moon games, it's kind of like if they were good looking.
Al: It kind of feels similar in art style, but actually not ugly, if that makes sense.
Kevin: [laughs]
Al: Otherwise, the music's quite nice. There is not any voice acting, as far as I'm aware.
Kevin: not even like Japanese, okay. Oh sure. Oh right, well sure. Look, it looks very
Al: I'm not playing in Japanese, but also it's a Chinese studio, I think. Let me check.
Kevin: we'd like you can't blame me.
Al: I mean, it is, but Japan don't get exclusive on that.
Kevin: Yeah, I'm sure. Okay.
Al: Yeah, Chinese game development studio, SeedSparkle Lab. Just to get out of the way, there is some
Al: controversy about this game regarding possible paid reviews and stuff like that and bots.
Al: I don't, they claim that it's nothing to do with them. I don't know anything about it, but I would
Al: would say that I think there are
Al: people talking about this game legitimately as well and I it's not the
Al: sort of game that I look at and go like if someone told me that heartopia had
Al: a bot farm me giving them positive views I'd be like yeah I can see that if
Al: someone told me that by this I'm like why I mean it doesn't really change the
Al: quality of the game right so if that's gonna be one of these things it well
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, they're not mentioned exclusive trying to pay this off, but we still like it
Al: that's the thing if it's one of these things where it's like I'm not saying it's
Al: I generated content right but like that is if you've enjoyed a game that is
Al: unlikely to massively change how you've enjoyed the game it might just make you
Al: go a bit like that feels icky sort of thing right it might be a blocker for you
Al: playing the game but that is an ethics question rather than a is the game
Al: good question which is a whole other thing and I can't make those decisions for you
Al: But for me, for me, I don't particularly care that if a game has been paying people to
Kevin: Yes, week 10.
Al: write positive reviews, I care about whether and just for the record, they're not paying me
Al: right. Please pay me for this review because it's going to be positive anyway.
Al: I would love to get paid for this. No, I'm joking. No, they have not. I mean, I'm not big enough
Al: for that anyway, right?
Al: All right, let's talk about the mechanics. There's a lot to get through.
Al: So I will try not to spend too much time on most of this.
Al: The movement of the characters feels quite nice.
Al: You can have start off by you can walk or you can run.
Al: But what really says this game apart is the vehicles.
Al: You can start off by getting some escape board.
Al: You craft the skateboard and then you can use the great skateboard.
Al: and it is fun to write. It is an enjoyable
Al: way to traverse. There are better ways to
Al: traverse and we'll get to them in a minute. You
Al: unlock this keyboard quite early in the
Al: game and it is fun. It's not a waste. But there
Kevin: It's not a waste, that's good.
Al: are lots of other vehicles, but I could see
Al: myself still going back to the skateboard.
Al: It's not the fastest vehicle and it's not the
Al: one that I choose day to day, but it is
Al: This is someone that I can see myself going back.
Al: That is fun because it's fun, right?
Al: Sadly, as we've mentioned, there aren't any tricks you can do, you can only jump, but that
Al: does make a big difference being able to jump, right, because you can jump over fences and
Al: stuff like that.
Al: That is fun.
Al: The vehicle, however, that I am choosing to go on day-to-day is the roller skates because
Al: they are much faster to transition from not waiting them to waiting them.
Al: Ironically, considering in the real life that would be the other way around, but I just
Kevin: Yeah, that's funny.
Al: enjoying just being able to walk, and then you move to your vehicle and you press
Al: the button and your transition from walking to skating immediately, it's very enjoyable.
Al: It makes moving around the world quite fun.
Al: Like with this skateboard, you can jump, and it makes traversal not just faster in a straight
Al: line, but you can do a straight line where you couldn't when you're walking, right?
Al: Because if you're walking, you can jump, but you're unlikely to be able to jump over
Al: fence, whereas with this skateboard and the roller skates, you can jump higher, and you
Al: can jump onto something to jump over something else, and it makes everything faster, even
Al: if you wouldn't have been able to go in a straight line previously, because now you
Kevin: That sounds pretty sick, you know, that's not for front for a lot of cottageboard games.
Kevin: The traverse other than, you know, like the horse or whatever.
Al: There's lots of other vehicles as well, so for example, I just recently unlocked a hoverboard,
Kevin: So that's pretty cool to hear way of differentiating.
Kevin: Yo! Yeah.
Al: which is like a better skateboard, because you don't need to jump as much, because you'll just
Al: go over some obstacles automatically, which is fun. There's also things like there's more
Al: pads and stuff like that, which are fine. I didn't find any of them particularly enjoyable, but like
Al: they're fine. I wouldn't choose it over the skateboard, but the advantage of that is you can get
Al: it basically straight away in the game. I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago, you can rent more
Al: pad from maybe like 10 minutes into the game, so it is pretty good. And you have like basically the
Kevin: Pretty dope. It's pretty good.
Al: way it works is if for renting vehicles, as you register a vehicle that you want to rent, and you
Al: get it for, so you pay, and then you can use it as much as you want for the next two.
Al: endgame days.
Kevin: That's, you know, that's a great little like it's not even per day, you know, little buffer there. That's cool.
Al: Yeah, and it gives you
Al: It like there's a weak a way that you can like call it you can like
Al: Generate it next to you. So you don't have to go to find it
Al: Which is nice, so you're just like oh, I'm I've walked away from it
Al: I can just like press a button have it materialize in front of me
Al: So that's that's quite good
Al: So I used that for a little bit, but as soon as I had the skateboard I was like, well, this is this is it now
Al: Right, and then I got this the
Kevin: Yeah
Al: roller skates. Now I was like, well, this is it now.
Al: The hoverboard has not taken over the roller skates for me, but it is it's fun.
Al: So I've been doing it occasionally, but there's then there's also other things like, for example,
Al: there's jet skis and there's boats and stuff like that.
Kevin: That's that's a big selection of vehicles. That's cool
Al: It's, but there's also animals as well. You can write certain animals.
Kevin: It's right like a llama I think am I right?
Al: I think there's quite a few different ones. There's also one that's like, in the late game,
Al: after you've explored the entirety of the the moonlit forest, there's one you can unlock that
Al: way, which I will not spoil, but this one one there. So yeah, there's just a lot of different ways
Al: of traversing, which is is really good and really important for me. Like that is a thing that I really
Al: like in farming games is being able to get places quickly, because I'm impatient. And I know some people
Al: like they can have slow progress of the
Al: things. I'm not that kind of person. So yeah, I like to like to be able to do that. Like I've
Al: in Stardew, I focus on being able to get tell, you know, what they call the little totems that is what I
Al: try and focus on as quickly as I can. So having more ways of doing that is good.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah
Kevin: Yeah, no, that's pretty sick
Al: So I want to talk about the quest next. There's two things to talk about. One is just like the general
Al: request system, and one is that there's a set of
Al: notification system, like the jobs that you had, what was it, lima, lima island, was it? I had that, where you were kind of focusing on certain jobs.
Kevin: All right. Yeah, I think so.
Al: So this has that. So there's five jobs. There's farming, ranching, fishing, exploration, and crafting. And it starts off with you do crafting first.
Al: But as soon as you've done the first crafting thing you can then talk to the other people.
Al: to do the other ones as well.
Al: So you can kind of do you can either focus on one area or you can do all of them at the same time.
Al: I started off with crafting and farming and got there pretty far and then I added the ranching and exploring quite quickly.
Al: And then eventually I was like I guess I should do some fishing.
Al: So there's five different layers for the certifications and right as of now.
Kevin: Yeah
Al: So they go apprentice junior intermediate senior and expert.
Al: So as of just now I am an expert crafter so that's the top one.
Al: I am an expert explorer again the top one.
Al: I am intermediate so that's the middle one on farming and ranching.
Al: Purely because those ones seem to get really hard intermediate where the other ones didn't.
Al: Like intermediate to get to senior farmer you have to get 50 pieces of fruit.
Al: And it's like those frick trees take ages to grow and then it's like I don't know how I'm gonna get
Al: 50 quickly and the intermediate ranching requires you getting colored will and the problem with
Al: getting colored will is you have to breed sheep to get different colored sheep you can only get
Al: white and black to start with and those ones don't count so you have to breed them to get other
Al: colors of sheep and I just haven't got to that point yet so it's some of them feel harder than others
Al: to do. The... and...
Al: fishing I am apprentice, which is the first levels. That kind of shows you where I am in the game.
Al: Not a big fissure, but I'll get to fishing, I'll get to fishing. Craft quest in general are pretty
Al: kind of good, in my opinion. So there is a... there is a request sport kind of like in stargy,
Al: but it's more... it feels more fundamental than stargy it does. There is always multiple
Al: like four quests a day and you can accept up to three of them. Whereas in like stargy it's one,
Al: I think, a day, maybe some, maybe some days there's two. But the way the quests work is quite nice
Al: in that you have like a log of them and you can choose one of them to be shown on your screen
Al: at all times and it will show you what you've got to do and it will like tell you whether you've
Al: certain goals or not and then it will progress them. If it's one of the main
Kevin: Lovely. Oh, love.
Al: you oh you've done this but now here's the next step automatically which is really nice.
Al: But it also has like an in-world kind of indication of where you should be going to get the next thing
Al: if you want. You can turn that off which I think is really important because some people will
Al: feel like that is too hand-holding and if you don't want that you can just say I don't want that
Al: and it won't do that which is really good. I did want it because I am really bad at figuring out
Al: out what I am in the world and figuring out what other people are in the world.
Al: And that is not a game problem, that is a me problem because this game actually does a really good job of that.
Al: The map shows you where people are and there's quite a few things in the world that you can use to orient yourself and be like that is where I'm trying to go.
Al: There's all the buildings are quite distinctive, there's one really big hill on one side of the island that makes it very clear where you are in relation to that.
Al: I'm just really bad with figuring out where I am.
Al: I really like those because it's like, if I've got a quest I want to do, I just want to get to where it is and do it.
Al: I don't want to figure out where I am like we've talked about this before, I'm not a big exploration guy.
Kevin: It's also handy if you just, you know, come back to the game after a year and you're like,
Kevin: "Where am I?"
Al: - Yeah, yeah, yeah for sure.
Al: So yeah, I really like Quest system.
Al: It's really good, just in general.
Al: I think it's a really good way of doing things.
Al: You can get a bunch of different types of quests
Al: and you can filter them in different ways.
Al: And then you can select this one as the one I want to track
Al: and it will show you on your screen
Al: where you still have to do.
Al: And then tell you where to go when you've got it,
Al: which is really nice.
Kevin: Yeah, and stuff.
Al: All right, let's get through the...
Al: kind of standard mechanics. I try not to spend too much time on these, but there's some things
Al: I need to talk about. So farming, the most of it is pretty standard. You know, you tell the grand,
Al: grand you put in the seed, you water, it grows, you harvest it. The quickest things, now that we have
Al: the actual game, the quickest things take, I think it's like 12 hours or something like that.
Al: And then the longest things take like, just over a week. Yes, in game. Yeah, yeah, everything is
Kevin: You mean 12 in-game hours, right?
Kevin: Okay
Al: in game time. There's no real life time. Don't worry. And so I really like being able to like
Kevin: Okay, just make it sure
Al: plant something and still be able to harvest it the same day, if you really want to like build up on
Al: things, which is fun. They grow...
Kevin: Yeah, you don't see that often.
Al: as long as they're watered. So instead of being like, you know, how it'll start you and other ones
Al: do it where they just they grow in the morning or they grow overnight. One stage every day,
Al: it's like they're growing in terms of minutes, right? So you've gotten every minute,
Al: they are progressing. And then once they hit certain points, they change their appearance.
Al: But then I think I've talked about this in another podcast episode. The water
Al: indication on the ground is like this.
Al: Slowly. Smallering in smaller ring.
Al: I don't know how to describe it.
Al: Like the amount of the two colors, right?
Al: You've got the dry ground and the wet ground.
Al: And then the wet ground get smaller and smaller over time.
Al: And you can see it visibly how close it is to being completely dry.
Al: So you could just like go you can go back every couple of hours and water it.
Al: And it will never go dry and it will always be wet.
Al: Or you can just like leave it until it's at the point where it's now.
Al: And you need to water it again.
Al: But there will have been that time period between it going dry.
Al: And you're watering it that it will stop counting down.
Al: So it just depends on how obsessive you are about making sure that you are being, you know,
Al: min-maxing.
Al: But you can, yeah, you can water them in the morning and then the evening and it will never
Al: go dry.
Al: And that's that's quite a nice kind of way of not having to.
Al: So you don't have to do the first thing you get up is water.
Al: Otherwise it's not growing, right?
Al: I've quite often, most days I will water before I go to bed.
Al: So that I know that in the morning I can do some other things first, rather than immediately having to go water.
Al: So I like that flexibility. It's quite a fun different way of doing things.
Kevin: Yeah, that sounds like yeah. Yeah, I mean
Kevin: Like I think a wonderful life
Kevin: It has a gradual water like you can see the ground getting dry and you can water before bed too and that'll usually work
Kevin: But but it's still not a lot of games do that. Um, so that is cool because
Al: Yeah
Al: The watering can it's like you hold down the button and then you you as you move it all change where what
Al: Plot of land is your focus and it will just water that as you go
Al: It doesn't use up the water in like it needs to which is nice
Al: But it you so you can just like walk down a line of crops and hold the button and just keep walking in it
Kevin: No, that's a nice
Al: Or water everything so it's not like walk press walk press walk press. I really like that
Al: it feels much more natural.
Al: And the really good thing is as you upgrade the watering can, it's just the amount of space that
Al: you're watering at once gets bigger. So I'm currently at three by three space. So I start and I press it
Al: and it immediately waters three by three and as I walk down it's doing three as I keep going, which is
Al: really nice. The one thing I'll complain about is your walking speed is slightly too fast if the ground
Kevin: That's such a good feeling.
Al: is completely dry. If the ground isn't completely dry and you never let it get completely dry,
Al: then that's fine you're walking speed is perfect but if
Al: that's my only real complaint about that and it's such a tiny one but it's just like
Al: speed up the water and very slightly to match the walking speed that's that's what I would
Kevin: Yeah, that's pretty funny. You know, you don't see that. I mean, first of all, you don't see that often. We can walk in water, but it's weird to now have a problem how you sync up the speed.
Al: Yeah. Yeah. And it's only something you notice if you let the ground go completely dry,
Al: which I don't most of the time, but occasionally you just you forget. And so you have to deal with it.
Al: I hate so most things will there's like three different ways of growing things you either
Al: grow in farmland, which is your standard thing. You grow on a trellis, which you have to build
Al: the trellis and then grow up with the trellis, which I will complain about in a minute.
Al: And then I think you can also have a party field.
Al: But I haven't encountered the party field, but that's for rice and stuff like that.
Al: You can grow that in that. I don't know how that one works, just because I wasn't bothered to figure it out because there's so many things in this game, right?
Al: But yeah, that is a fun little thing because obviously in Stardew, there are some like trail-based plants, but you're like automatically plant the trail is when you plant the plant.
Kevin: Yeah, the tomato sticks just pop
Al: And the chilly and stuff like that, they just appear, whereas here you have to build the trail list and then plant it under the trail list.
Al: My complaint about the trail list is the trail list ignores a bunch of upgrades.
Al: So, as I was telling you, the water during canned water is more plots as you upgrade it, except the trail list.
Kevin: What? That's insane.
Al: Isn't it so stupid?
Al: So if I'm walking up and I have like I do things in a three by three basis, right?
Al: So I've got three by three and I'm walking in there now.
Al: At the end of my three by three, I've got a three by three of
Al: trellises and I've been watering everything on in groups of three and
Al: now I have to water each individual trellis itself.
Kevin: Well, that's stupid, it's ridiculous.
Kevin: Where do we do it with it?
Kevin: Into all this great innovation,
Kevin: and they were just, no, forget it though.
Al: I'm absolutely bizarre decision.
Al: I'm hoping this is a bug and it gets fixed at some point,
Al: but they've been fixing bugs every day and this is still an issue.
Al: After a week and a half is still an issue after they've been fixing bugs every
Al: single day. So it's like it can't be that big a bug. It must be deliberate,
Al: but why is it deliberate? Why is it different?
Al: I think your answer is because you don't tell the land.
Al: You build the trail list and so I think in the game it's treated differently.
Al: And so they've just forgotten to add that into a bunch of coins.
Al: I think that's why it's the case. But yeah, it's just really annoying, such a, it's, I think my biggest annoyance about this game.
Kevin: Yeah. That should be wild.
Al: Cause there's a bunch of things you need for that. And then this, I can't stop growing trailer stuff because I need the stuff.
Al: But I just hate you, so what I've actually ended up doing is
Kevin: I'm getting annoyed by this.
Al: like I've not done a lot of sprinklers. I'll talk about the sprinklers
Al: probably in a minute. I've not done a lot of sprinklers because it's a quite
Al: expensive to build, but I will use the sprinklers only for the
Al: trailers. So I don't have to think about watering them. So that does bring me to
Kevin: ha ha ha ha well there you go
Al: the sprinklers. One really confusing thing is one of the watering
Al: can upgrades is called a sprinkler, but it's not a sprinkler. That was very
Kevin: Oh, I hate that.
Al: confusing. So I was like, oh, they're not sprinklers in this game. Is this the
Kevin: What is game god do this?
Al: only thing and no sprinklers aren't in the game.
Al: This was called a sprinkler, but then the actual sprinkler is called Sprinkler 1.
Kevin: oh yeah that's exactly what it's about to say
Al: Such a, this must, I think this is a translation issue, right?
Al: It's just very weird.
Kevin: oh gosh
Al: But the Sprinklers find, I mean, it works as a thing, it works exactly as you would expect
Al: it to.
Al: First one is a 3 by 3, and then I think the next one's a 5 by 5, and I don't know what the third
Al: one is because I've not got to that point. But um,
Al: Yeah, it you craft it. You use it as a sprinkler. I've just the naming thing was just so confusing
Kevin: That's that's definitely bad translation. Oh,
Al: Absolutely, absolutely. Um, and this game has big crops, which a lot of things do. So if you print if you
Al: If you have a three by three of a specific crop for certain crops, they will occasionally grow into a giant one
Kevin: Oh, that's always fun. I like that.
Al: um, the, but the reason why I'm mentioning is this, once you harvest the big one, you obviously get a lot of
Al: little ones. And sometimes you'll get a giant one as well that you can sell for more money. But you also
Al: get these little tokens that you can use for crafting furniture based on that type of crop.
Kevin: What a good incentive to do that. Oh, that's good. I like that
Al: So you can get like watermelon tea tables and watermelon sofas that you have to grow the big one
Al: to be able to get the items to be able to grow from it. It's, it's, yeah, it's fun. It's not something
Al: that I'm going to spend a lot of time doing because I don't particularly care.
Al: I think it's fun for some people, and it's a nice
Kevin: Well, that's I like that a lot either I'd be oh, I'd be so in on that
Al: So I think that's most of the farming stuff.
Al: Crafting is a bit hit or miss for me.
Al: I generally like the crafting,
Al: but it very much suffers from the user machine
Al: to build a thing to craft a thing,
Al: to build a machine to craft a thing,
Al: to build a machine to craft a thing.
Al: And the chains of crafting are a really hard
Al: to keep track of, right?
Al: So like for example, um, uh, let me see if I.
Al: I want to get an actual example so I can show you how it works.
Al: So there's a type of storage box called a realm box, which is like an extra box in your inventory that you can carry around.
Al: So basically is an extra inventory increase to build a realm box.
Al: You need five alloy three spirit cube one five star flare core and six hardwood planks.
Kevin: Oh goodness, oh, all this sounds miserable.
Al: No to get, no to get the alloy.
Al: You use the furnace to get the alloy from one gold ingot, one iron ingot, one copper ingot, and one coal ingot, and then obviously to get a gold ingot, you need four gold or and one core to get a copper ingot, you need four copper or and one charcoal, and to get an iron ingot, you need four iron and one coal.
Al: So great. That's like 20 different things already.
Kevin: I don't like any of this
Al: And then there's there was the spirit cube one to get the spirit cube one.
Al: You need just finding it because I want this to be accurate.
Al: You need four spirit cube fragments and two bronze.
Al: Now the spirit cube fragments you get from getting or which is like the
Al: over the cold little things in Stardew that you break open.
Kevin: Oh, oh, oh, the deodes or whatever.
Al: Yeah the geode. So it's like a geode.
Al: So you get uncommon or rare ores and you put them in an or analyzer
Al: and then you will sometimes get out the spirit cube fragments.
Al: And then you've got bronze.
Al: So bronze you use a furnace as well.
Al: And for bronze, you need one copper ingot, one tin ingot and one charcoal.
Al: And then there's even more complicated things.
Al: So for example, you've got the ghee you've got you've got.
Al: Well, let me see which is a good example.
Al: This will be my last example. Don't worry, this is not, I'm not going to go down to many more levels.
Al: So there is a robot terminal, which I will explain later why that's fun.
Al: But to do the robot terminal, you need five meteor plank for eternal alloy to perpetual reactors for chips, six gears, and three Spirit Cubes 2.
Al: Now Spirit Cubes 2 needs two Spirit Cubes 1s and 1s.
Al: The Meteor Planck needs a specific table where I can't remember the name of.
Al: To get the chip needs one Flame Core Engut, three Gold Wire, two Diamonds.
Al: Gold Wire needs one Gold Engut, Flame Core Engut needs four Flame Core or and one Oil Stone.
Kevin: Right, you're doing this to me, Al.
Al: And then, of course, we had today.
Al: the perpetual reactor, which needs one lunar crystal, two diamond, two high performance wire set, and two magnets.
Al: Now, a high performance wire set, it needs one gold ingot, one copper sheet, and one ten ingot.
Al: Now, what's a copper sheet you might ask, well, to get a copper sheet, you use the cutter to process one copper ingot into one copper sheet.
Al: And so this is the problem is that, like, obviously,
Al: as you're building up, you understand all of these things, right? Like, these are all just words, you will not be of being processing what I've been seeing.
Al: But as you're building up, you understand all these things. So everything that I said I understand. But the problem is, I now have 13 different crafting things, crafting machines.
Al: And you have to remember each one. So you know, you have to know that a perpetual reactor comes from an energy converter, but a chip comes from a gearsmith.
Al: You've also got the spinning wheel, the loom, the cutter, the charcoal can kill them, the furnace, the separator, the ore analyzer. And then that's not even to mention the fact that there's the ammo maker, the juicer, the feeder.
Al: And then, of course, the work table, there is a work table as well. And I'm just like, this is all very well and good, but why do we need all these different machines, right?
Kevin: What was all this to make again? I gloss
Al: of robot terminal. So this is the, I just end up getting completely lost in all of this,
Kevin: Oh my god
Al: and I'm like, okay, I know, I, I, by the time that I've got all of my items, I've forgotten what it
Al: was, I was trying to craft in the first place. And, and you don't have one of these things on the
Kevin: Yes, clearly.
Al: go at once, right? Because like you might have five different quests going at once, and each one of
Al: them is you trying to get all the items together to then craft something because you need different
Al: and things, right? Like, for example.
Al: I also have a machine that automatically cleans my animals.
Al: And so that's something I need for the ranching, but obviously I'm crafting it, right?
Al: So, like, all your five different main quests could have something that you're trying to craft.
Al: And so you're trying to remember what you need to get and how you need to get it,
Al: and then what machine you need to use to make the five chains of items to get to the thing that you want.
Al: I don't understand why we can't
Al: just have the work table and everything is at the work table. I especially don't understand
Al: why we have an ammo maker which is just a weird looking work table. There's some that are like,
Al: okay, I understand why they think there's needs to be a different thing because it is a specific,
Al: like they're wanting it to be realistic. To make thread, you're going to have a spinning wheel,
Al: to make pieces of fabric, you're going to have a loom. Okay, fine.
Al: I understand it in real life. Those two things would be separate. But why do they need to be separate in-game?
Al: From my point of view, I'm making fabric, right? Like they're all related. You might not make ammo
Al: your work table. But why not? Why wouldn't you do that? Right? I might understand that, for example,
Al: to make a copper ingot, that's a different process than making charcoal. But they're both just
Al: things you put things in, and they're hot, and something comes out, right? Like, why do I care?
Al: two things are different. And the one that really annoys me the most is the energy converter
Al: and the gearsmith. And they're just both different ways to get specific technology related things.
Al: Why are those two different things? Like, even if you want all these things to be different
Al: machines, you could simplify it massively and have like five of them. And you would still be
Al: different things. And they're all like, this is the one that's to do with clothes. This is the one to do
Al: with hot stuff, you know like...
Al: like making ingots and charcoal and stuff like that, this is the one that's to do with cutting, turning things into bigger things into smaller things or whatever, and this is the one that's making technology.
Al: And then you've got your work table. Like those would still give you separate things, but massively simplify it, and mean like, oh, I'm thinking of technology, I go to the technology one.
Al: I'm thinking of fabric, I go to the fabric one. Whereas I go like, I need a perpetual reactor, how do I know that's the energy converter of the gearsmith?
Al: How do I know which one that is? Like, how am I meant to remember these things? I don't understand why it has to be so complicated.
Kevin: Yeah, that's pretty miserable, and I'm a guy who generally likes he's like, you know
Kevin: Rating different stations for specific things, but it goes up to a point like I might ever glazing over as you described all this
Al: Yeah, absolutely. This is not a great podcast, right? Like all of those words are terrible
Kevin: And I mean clearly
Al: podcasting. I'm so sorry listeners, but I feel like I need to make the point of how bad
Kevin: Yeah, that's that's that's pretty bad like you said at the very least it has to be
Kevin: Very intuitive right
Kevin: The because sure you can't have you know, this I mean a minecraft where the crafting table is you know like
Kevin: 80% of everything they just have a few different
Kevin: Stations like the furnace and they have or whatever, but it's got to be like you said
Al: I think generally I think how they've thought about it is like the crafting table is things
Kevin: Instinctive right like
Al: that you make immediately and the other machines are things that take time, right?
Kevin: Or
Al: So like I can make a crossbow, I can just put it together as made.
Al: Whereas I can't just immediately smell some copper or into a thing, right?
Al: I understand the idea.
Al: Like that doesn't then extend the ammo, like you're making arrows, but that's making it automatically at the table and it's taking time to make them like that doesn't make any sense and also the separator, it happens immediately, it's not part of the workbench, but it makes things immediately separated by the way.
Al: It makes you can make protein powder out of bugs, you can make fruit juice and vegetable pulp from fruit in the way.
Kevin: Oh, that's, hmm, that's an innovative.
Al: So it's like processing things, but that's immediate, like if I can make a thousand vegetable pulp immediately, but I can't make five arrows, that takes half an hour automatically, like there's just a weird disconnect there, and I don't know why that's the case.
Kevin: Now, let's strange.
Al: Some positives about crafting, there's a lot of things that you can do for automation, which I might...
Al: I need to have a whole other section about automation, because I had it in the ranching, but maybe I need to have a whole section about automation after I've done the other things.
Al: But yeah, there's a lot of automation related things, which is nice.
Al: All of the machines that have different levels, so like you've got the work table, you can upgrade it to do more stuff with it, you can upgrade it rather than having to build a new one.
Al: So you can either build a new one.
Al: And then upgrade it as you go, so it's a really nice way to be able to go like.
Al: So one of the things that really annoys me about, for example, stargy is I make one of the simple sprinklers.
Al: And then I get the recipe for making the better sprinkler.
Al: What do I do with these original sprinklers?
Al: I can't turn them back into the items I had.
Al: I can't upgrade them.
Al: Whereas with this, you can upgrade almost everything.
Al: thing. The one thing you can't
Al: you can't upgrade in place is storage boxes and I'm really annoyed about that. So there's
Al: three different levels of storage boxes that are like different bigger. You can't upgrade
Al: them. You can only build new ones. And I don't know why that's specifically of all the
Al: things in the game. That is the one that you can't do. And it's really annoying because
Al: I have I have two of the original boxes that I now can't upgrade and they're stuck being
Al: really small, and that's very annoying. I've obviously built more that I have
Al: that are bigger, but why can't I make those ones bigger? And it's like what do I do with them? They're just sitting there with basically nothing in them, but other than that, all of the other ones you can upgrade, which is really nice because that is such an annoying thing, right? Or being like, oh, I have this old thing that I made that is now not good. It's great, you can upgrade it.
Al: Yeah, so I think generally the crafting is fine. There's some things that are really good, and there are some things that are really frustrating. Ranching, so there's a whole bunch of animals, and most of it works exactly.
Al: you can expect. You've got chickens, you've got sheep, you've got cows, you've got pigs, you've got rabbits. I think there's a bunch of other ones that I've not unlocked as well. You give them food, they give you stuff, right? The usual sort of thing. They also, though, will help around the farm. So for example, rabbits will dig up weeds for you.
Kevin: door. Oh, I love that.
Al: So your crops grow weeds sometimes in that way.
Al: If there are weeds growing, it will stop them growing, and so you have to go in like manually pull them out. But then once you have rabbits, the rabbits do it instead, which I really like. So like, I'm now at the point where I just don't have to think about that at all because my rabbits are just doing the job for me. So not only do they give me, they give me fur, but also they dig up the weeds.
Al: And they put the weeds in a little box that you can then pick up later as well, because that gets more important when you use the other ones, so chickens.
Kevin: Oh, that's incredible.
Al: They take a step back. Trellis plants will sometimes have cicadas on them. And if the cicadas do the same thing as weeds, but for trellis plants, they'll stop them growing. Your chickens will get the cicadas and they'll put them in a box for you. So they'll clean up in the same way that the rabbits to the weeds.
Al: But then the cicadas you can then use for protein powder, so you can like process them and sell them on, which is really nice. So it's like all of these things work together. And a really nice kind of
Al: straight away and I really like that.
Kevin: Synergy.
Al: There's also breeding of animals,
Al: which works mostly how you would expect,
Al: but there's crossbreeding.
Al: So you can get different ones.
Al: So for example, you can get like pink,
Kevin: that you're going to color sheep.
Al: you can get pink sheep, or you can get like,
Al: I've got a rabbit, which is called a lunar rabbit,
Al: which is just kind of like these slightly pink and glowing.
Al: And these things don't matter.
Al: Like they don't really accept in the sheep,
Al: the sheep matter because they give you different
Al: coloured will but nothing else will give you anything different it's just they just look different and that's kind of cool my lunar rabbit is like kind of glowing pink and yellow which I kind of like yeah or one of the things I forgot to say so you can get glue you can make glue and the item the item that you use to make the glue is sheep sheep saliva.
Kevin: Yes, this is cool flex. It's for your aura.
Kevin: No, I'm scared. Oh, I don't know how accurate that is.
Al: So you go up to you you go up to your sheep pen and the best but is if you see it before you pick it up it's a bowl of slack like I just don't like a little bowl it looks like crockery it's not like a plastic it's like it's like it's so funny it's so unnecessary.
Kevin: Oh yeah!
Kevin: That's the best way to handle this. I love that screen. Good for them. Good for them.
Al: So yeah, most of the animals will give you multiple things, they either give you
Al: multiple things or they do things as well. So I really like that. Like there's not
Al: just one thing that you get from animals. It's kind of showing that like ecosystems work
Al: in complicated ways. And obviously it's oversimplified, right? And it doesn't talk about
Al: how like you can that can go over the top and ruin ecosystems. But it's I just I like in the
Al: general concept.
Al: of your chicken isn't just there to give you eggs, right, like it exists in a world and it does things and it can affect things like I really like that.
Kevin: Yeah, that's pretty cool
Kevin: That's cool
Al: The exploding or mining they call it exploding, but it's basically just mining there's a forest, which is kind of like the the the mine in starchy.
Al: It's there's not a huge amount here that would be different is just you're exploiting a forest rather than going down are.
Al: a mine and there's like campsites that you repair when you get to them and then you can like teleport between them.
Al: Different areas have different ors and stuff like that but then there's also there's there's bosses that you come across that you have to attack and you've got you start off with like a.
Al: Or what's it called the catapult you get catapult first and then you eventually unlock the ability to have a.
Al: a bone arrow and then a crossbow and stuff like that.
Al: And the combat's fine. I would say it's probably better than Stardew, but that's not saying much.
Kevin: Yeah, it's an eyebar.
Al: But it's all ranged combat. There's no sword or anything like that. You just have these projectiles
Al: and it's about dodging attacks and then fighting back at the right time and stuff like that.
Al: It wasn't particularly difficult, but it was something. The bosses also respawn every
Kevin: Okay, that's interesting.
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: day. So if you go back, there'll be there again. You get a lot of things that way,
Kevin: Oh, that's, that's.
Al: right? There's a whole bunch of treasure chests and stuff like that. You can get a lot of stuff
Al: in the forest. And then there's also a story-based thing that I'm not going to talk about,
Al: but there's a progression through that area and you're uncovering some mystery around that area.
Kevin: Okay, sure, that makes sense.
Al: It's nothing particularly amazing.
Kevin: Yeah, it's typical.
Al: But it's a fun little little story.
Al: And last thing before I talk about automation is fishing.
Al: I have done very little fishing.
Al: I did not enjoy the fishing.
Al: So the fishing in this game is you how to describe this.
Al: So when you hold the fishing line and you press a button to cast,
Al: you then use, for me it was like the left analog stick.
Al: life analog stick, but I'm presuming it's the most of using my
Al: keyboard to like choose where you're casting to so you choose the area you're casting to and you see
Al: a little fish shadows in the waters you have to go near a fish shadow and then similar to kind of like
Al: animal crossing style in that aspect but you're like explicitly saying I want to go here in the water rather
Al: than just kind of like fishing in general direction and then the shadow will like you know come and
Al: then buy on and then this is where that kind of got confused because I'm not sure exactly because it
Al: think, I know for a fact the fish can break away, but I don't know whether anything I did
Al: affected that or not. You're like, you hold the button to pool in and I cannot tell because
Al: I left this so late because I just didn't want to do it. Um, whether what I was doing
Al: affected, whether it would break away or whether that was random. I honestly don't know
Al: the explanation was really bad. It's not particularly interesting, but then I've
Al: never been a huge fishing mini game fan. Uh, it, it is what it is. Uh, I don't know. I always
Al: feel with fishing that it's so much time and effort to get so little light of it. That
Kevin: Yeah, well
Al: is my, that is my fishing opinion just in general, which is kind of the point, right? Like
Al: that's how people like fishing is because it's so calm and chill. And I'm just like, that's
Kevin: Yeah, I was about to say exactly, right?
Al: not what I'm here for.
Kevin: No common chill and else close to games, no
Kevin: Huh, but no, I mean like I get it. Yeah, like that's the point you it's to slow down and
Kevin: Relax and get a cool thing of the ocean maybe if you were lucky and do it right
Kevin: But that's not for everyone.
Kevin: It's like real fishing.
Kevin: Yeah, but...
Al: All right, automation, I really like how they've done automation.
Al: There's loads of automated things.
Al: So obviously there's like sprinklers and stuff like that, the standard automation.
Al: But there's also like almost everything you can do,
Al: you can automate in the game in the late game.
Al: So like there's, there's medium,
Al: there's early term things, which is like, you know, your sprinkler and stuff like that.
Al: Then there's medium game things like, as I mentioned before, there's a machine to like,
Al: clean your animals.
Al: So normally you would have to like go around your animals and brush a few of them every day,
Al: there's a machine that they would just automatically go to if they need cleaned.
Al: There's like a feeding trough that you can add like hundreds of feed to,
Al: whereas normally you'd only put a certain amount in each of the individual things,
Al: but you can go like, here is my feeding trough for all my animals.
Al: And I'll put in 100 chicken feed, 100 rabbit feed, 100 sheep feed, etc.
Al: So that makes it really nice.
Al: And then there's the late game stuff.
Al: And there are fully automated robots you can get.
Al: You can then set off to do specific, oh no, I missed a point, as you're upgrading your
Al: axe and your hammer, which is for trees and mining, there is a chainsaw and a drill that you can upgrade to.
Kevin: Ooh, now we're talking.
Al: So you're still manually going around and you're manually going around and choosing what to do,
Al: But you it doesn't I'm pretty sure I haven't actually unlocked these ones
Al: because I I unlocked the crafting recipes at the same time as I unlocked the net the robots
Al: And I'm focusing just now in the robots, but I'm pretty sure those won't those don't use stamina
Al: Which is really nice
Al: You can just walk around and like drill everything and get a whole bunch of stuff, which is really cool
Al: But then there's the robots and these robots are fantastic and I want to do all of the robots
Al: So you
Kevin: Well all you need to do is all that crafting you talked about before.
Al: So the yes you do you do and it is a lot of work, but then they do so much so I have a mining robot and I've left it mining for two days and it has
Al: a hundred iron a hundred ten
Al: 200 softwood a hundred hardwood
Al: 68 premium with 23
Al: uncommon or
Al: 17 rare ores 81 flew right a hundred and twenty five like they just and you can have so like this
Al: each robot terminal can have 12 robots, and I only have one mining robot just now and
Al: one logging robot
Al: And and they just do so much like I love and I feel like I'm gonna be able to set these up
Al: Spend a few more days kind of building a few more robots and another terminal because you have one terminal
Al: Like I want one in the forest and one on my farm
Al: And because you can also like set them up to do farming as well and gathering so you can get them to like get up all the like
Al: Off the ground as well and and and also you can tell them what to do with your
Al: Your crops. I don't know how that works exactly because I haven't got a crop based robot yet
Al: Because the blueprints for them are so expensive
Al: Never mind actually crafting them in the first place
Kevin: Yeah
Kevin: Yeah, I mean that sounds like late ed boom endgame
Al: but I just like it's
Al: It's just automated to like
Al: the most ridiculous degree, I love it.
Al: it's fantastic. So this leads me to, okay, so a couple of other things I'll come back to this
Kevin: Pretty good. Wildflowers has robots too, just saying.
Al: because I have one more point to make about automation. Automation good, but it leads me to
Al: our question, which are okay at the end. But let's quickly go bug catching is exactly what you
Al: expect with bug catching. You have a net, there are bugs, go catch them. You can, however, but there is
Kevin: Yeah, not much innovating there. It's ever...
Al: other than, obviously, you can turn them into protein powder, which is just a very silly thing you
Al: can do, but you can build a beehive and you can catch bees and put them in your beehive. So it's not
Kevin: Yep. Oh, uh, uh, uh, uh.
Al: like the bees are automatically there. You have to catch queen bee and then some worker bees
Al: and you are queen and a bunch of workers in a hive and they will generate you honey. It's one of
Al: the rare situations where you have to do more work, but it's more fun being more realistic. I know it's
Al: It's not fully realistic.
Al: You don't have to tell me how it's wrong, but it's more realistic than you just put
Al: a hive there and magically honey up here.
Al: Although, maybe code your tell me that actually that is realistic, who knows?
Kevin: That's fun. Go buy fully built it
Al: But yeah, that's fun.
Al: Other than that bug catching is pretty much as you'd expect.
Al: The building in this game is very complicated.
Al: It almost kind of sims like where you're building individuals.
Al: and then walls and then riffs and like putting a all together and you can build
Al: whatever design of house you want, which is both great and also terrible. So it's
Al: great if you want that and it's terrible if you don't want that. But, but they
Al: have building plans. So you can you can purchase a building plan. I'm
Kevin: Oh, preset, it's nice.
Al: say I want to build this design of house here and you press it and it's done. And
Al: you can buy that plan in one of two ways. You can either buy it with money or the
Al: plan is already there. And if you get all of the items that is needed, so like
Al: all of the ore and the wood, et cetera, et cetera, you can have it build that
Al: without paying for the plan. It just uses all the items. So you're either choosing
Al: to pay for the plan and the items that we...
Al: are needed to build all of the things, or you can get the things that are needed to build the
Al: house with and use that to then build the plan instead. Does that make sense? You're either
Al: using money to build it, or you're using items. And either way, you can use the plan to automatically
Al: build a specific design environment.
Kevin: OK, I get it. That's cool. I love those options where you can just invest more money instead of, you know, the timer, whatever.
Kevin: It's like, you know, every game has currency or whatever and then, and using that instead of the effort time, that's a great way of doing it, or, you know, common currency, whatever. You know what I mean? That's options are good.
Al: there's also leads into the fact that you start with like a certain plot of land and then you
Al: buy more land to expand your farm, which I've seen in a couple of games, but it felt different in
Kevin: Yeah, sure
Al: this one and I'm not quite sure why. But I like the idea of like, yeah, you just, you can just expand
Al: because it's like a bunch of land around you buy more, buy more space. Okay. So I've talked about
Al: the upgrading things. Storage stuff is interesting. They started out where you couldn't
Al: like craft things unless you had them in your bag, but one of the upgrades in the last we
Al: can have changed that. So now all the things in your chests are automatically available for
Al: crafting on gifting to people and stuff. So that was going to be a complaint about this game,
Al: but it's now great where I can just like store everything in chests. And I never have to think
Al: about having the right items in my inventory, except for my tools and weapons, everything else just
Al: goes in in in specific chests. And then I just never have to think about the amount of stuff.
Al: Storage. Interestingly, you upgrade your backpack using items rather than money. So it's like
Al: every level of upgrading your bag has certain items you have to use to upgrade it. It's almost like
Al: a just progression based thing where it's like, oh, this one needs, you know, specific crops or
Al: whatever. And this one needs like specific process items. And this one needs like it's like, once
Al: you get to a certain point, you're going to be able to do it. So it's almost like a progression
Al: gate for upgrading your story.
Al: But because you've got chests and the chests work nicely, it never feels like you're
Al: being disadvantaged from that, it just means realistically it only means that if you go into
Al: the forest to get a bunch of stuff, there's just maximum amount of stuff you can get before
Al: you have to come back.
Al: That's really all it does.
Al: So I said there was one thing I wanted to talk about after the automation, and nice, I don't
Al: understand why this game is early access.
Kevin: That's the, you know what? You're right. Forgot. That sounds very robust. That doesn't make much sense now, does it?
Al: It feels, I haven't noticed any lines of story that have abruptly stopped.
Al: Everything feels like it's either coming to a conclusion or there's still a long way for me to go to get to the end.
Al: And so I honestly do not know what they're going to do to get this game out of early access.
Al: Now it could just be our, we think everything's in the game, but we're like,
Al: we need to make sure that it's all, you know, get rid of all the bugs and
Al: some quality of life improvement.
Al: And then we're done, which would explain their time scale of four months, which is what we talked about in the draft episode. They said about four months for early access.
Kevin: Yeah
Al: I guess that makes sense, but like at this point, it feels all overkill to be early access rather than just doing a beta with some people. I don't know. It just seems weird that this is early access. This feels like the most complete early access I've ever played.
Kevin: Yeah, sounds way less early access than a lot of 1.0 as we've seen on the show.
Al: And just to give an idea of time frame, so I've put in 35 hours into this game so far, and I'm 35 out of 75 achievements.
Al: I've completed two of the the main like, uh, certification quest lines, uh, one is like basically not done at all and then two or maybe halfway.
Al: So it feels like a decent amount of game and like if you're going to want a hundred percent everything, then I think there's probably, uh,
Al: a large number of hours in this, because like I haven't even touched the romance system because that's the last thing I need to talk about, which is characters and romance.
Al: I have barely done anything with that.
Al: And that's this is going to be a partly me and partly the game.
Al: So partly me is like I've never, I'm, other than Stardew, I've never been particularly interested in the romance in these games.
Al: I will always do something, um, kind of some of the story of seasons of made me vaguely.
Al: I've been interested in some of the characters, uh, three of times in particular, there were a few there, I guess that so Stardew and three of times there was probably would be the two that I've actively wanted to progress romance in the games.
Al: So partly it's me, but partly also I've none of these characters are particularly interesting in my opinion.
Al: I think if what you're looking for in a game is interesting characters and deep story, I don't think you're going to find it.
Kevin: Oh, that's rough because I mean, yeah, that's kind of important for, you know, romance
Kevin: seem to care about the characters.
Al: I mean, what I will say is, obviously, we joke about it being, you know, weeb island, right?
Al: And I think that that is probably going to be enough for some people, the fact that, like,
Al: obviously, this is a bunch of, you know, anime style cute characters, if you will, right?
Al: Like, that's enough for some people. Like, oh, yeah, that character. I like the look of
Al: that character. Let me go romance that character. If that's what you want about romance,
Al: And that's fine, like that's there.
Al: And maybe there's more than I'm just not seeing it because I've not really gotten to
Kevin: Yeah
Al: know any of them.
Al: It's a chicken and egg problem, right?
Al: Like, I personally found Stardew characters interesting before I got to know them, right?
Al: My first romanceable character.
Al: I was interested because I went to talk to her and she was immediately mean to me.
Al: That's interesting.
Kevin: Well, since we're talking about a weave game out, let me tell you about Sundair.
Al: Why is this person so mean to me?
Al: And how can I stop them being mean?
Al: But it's not just that, right?
Al: You wouldn't expect when you are a new person in town for someone to be immediately mean to you.
Al: And that intrigues you, even if it-
Al: is not about the romance aspect, right? So like, for example, you know, we talk about Linus. He's a very interesting character. You know, immediately there's going to be something interesting about him there. With Clint, the fact that he immediately see he's really creepy, right? That's so obvious straight away.
Al: Whereas all of these characters, in my opinion so far, have been like, okay, so you're the farming person, but that's your entire personality.
Al: you know? And like some of them are maybe vaguely
Al: more interesting like maybe you're like oh you're dressed differently than what I would expect like oh there's a
Al: goth character for example you're an interesting person because you're a goth character you're an
Al: interesting person because you're maybe you know the only person who's not scantily clad right like there's there's
Kevin: - Yeah.
Al: some possibilities there but like it's it's it's not the same so I don't know maybe I'll spend some more time on it
Kevin: No, I get it.
Al: obviously at this point we are five days away from Pucopia I'm probably not gonna invest much more time in this
Al: game or a while no I'm not gonna do it now because I've got certain job to do right like I've done the
Kevin: to do it now. Okay.
Al: episode now I will come back to this game at some point I have very much enjoyed my 35 hours in this
Al: game and I think it's been worth my time and my money I will probably come back when it enters one point
Al: But I think I'm at this point where I'm like, let's take a break from it now.
Al: We'll finish up a couple of things before Procopia comes out and then I'm all in Procopia.
Al: But it's a year, a year's a long time and this is February and it will be interesting to see how I am going forward and how much time I sink into it when it hits 1.0 because you may remember like when I first played
Al: Carlisle and I was like, this is the best farming game I've ever played and I have not played it again since then.
Al: I haven't gone back to it.
Al: So, you know, complicated.
Al: And it's hard to know when you're enjoying something in the moment, and that's it, or whether it's going to be something that will continue and keep going and be long lasting, and nothing will ever, nothing will ever be the starchy, right?
Kevin: Last yeah, yeah, not the uh
Al: And that's part of the problem. Part of the problem is that I played the best farming game as the first one, right? Like, nothing will ever truly meet the sum of that game.
Al: Obviously, I think personally, I...
Al: more enjoy better... movement in games than Stardew has now, right?
Al: Like, I've talked in the last year's game of the year episode about how all my favorite games from last year were games I could jump in, and I said that in a jesty way, but it's also serious, right?
Al: Like, there's something about that style of game that I really like now, but nothing really has ever got to the point of the complicated stories and personalities that Stardew does.
Kevin: yeah, I start is the complete package that's the thing right every every other game we talk about here like all stood this this aspect better or this or that, but no game as challenged like start is all,
Al: So I think my conclusion would be, this is a good game. If you want a stardew-like,
Al: or you want a 3D stardew-like, or you want a weeb stardew-like, or you just want to try out a new
Al: stardew-like, this is a good game. If your main focus is characters, this is not the game for you.
Kevin: that's shame yeah give up characters for skateboard this is the way they
Al: But I mean, not every game can be everything, right? That's, I think, a thing, and it's
Al: important knowing what it is going in. But, from...
Al: I mean, that's a pretty good trade, right? What if you could do tricks?
Kevin: said I don't think so actually well then then the discussion would be
Kevin: different, then I could be swayed.
Al: Oh, goodness, I was going to keep that quick and it's been an hour.
Al: It's a big game. This is the thing, it's not a small game. There's a lot to talk about,
Al: And there's probably things that I've forgotten about.
Al: But I yeah, I've very much enjoyed my time in that game and it ran really nicely on my my handheld my my not a steam deck.
Al: I've enjoyed it.
Kevin: Stick yeah, I mean it sounds like a lot so yeah good for them
Al: I think I would also say it's probably the best 3d farming game I've played because so many of them are exist and so many of them are not fun because the traver so is not good and the camera controls aren't good.
Kevin: Yeah, it's hard.
Al: Those things they've got down the day to day minute to minute movement and progression in the game is fun and it's just about what is your overall goal for a game like what is it you're most looking forward to.
Al: That's the question you got to ask yourself as to whether you should play this now my voice is going.
Al: So let's wrap this up thank you Kevin for joining me to talk about star sand island and pocopia.
Kevin: Thank you all for having me on sounds like a big game and the week after that
Al: Tune in next week for
Al: I have next weekend, next weekend, pencil in as
Kevin: Possibly the week after that too
Al: Pocopia first impressions.
Kevin: Yeah, but then we'll get first impressions too from the other people.
Al: Maybe where can people find is there anything you would like to share with the audience?
Kevin: Ah, ah, I was too scoured.
Kevin: Yes, I suggested to Al that we do an episode of every host on and he's too
Kevin: power to do it, um, but other than that, no cocopi, it's coming.
Al: Yep, you just want people to buy cocopia so there's more cocopias in the future.
Kevin: It's, it's all it's life.
Kevin: That's, that's all goodbye.
Kevin: Yes, yes, that's correct.
Al: We want a cocopia too.
Kevin: come. Yes, immediately.
Kevin: Okay, but I'm Cooper Perez wherever. What about now this Joe people?
Al: You can find the podcast on tumblr.ndon blue sky at ths pod. You can
Al: be like shivers and send us feedback on our website.
Al: Harvestseason.club where you can also find links to everything to do with the podcast, including our patreon patreon.com/djspod where you can get access to our slack.
Al: See the pictures of my sister's new cats.
Kevin: Those are good pictures and confirmed.
Al: And also like, I'm sure we'll be talking about pogopia in there when it drops.
Kevin: Yeah
Al: You can also get access to our bonus episodes of the podcast.
Al: Last, we recorded just before this episode.
Al: We recorded our Pokemon Day predictions.
Al: It is an hour and 20 minutes long,
Al: one of the longer greenhouse episodes.
Kevin: We had thoughts, thoughts were said and communicated.
Al: So if you want an hour and 20 minutes
Al: of us talking about Pokemon,
Kevin: You should.
Al: you can't find that anywhere else, anymore.
Kevin: No, I, uh, no, where else?
Al: And I will cut that out.
Al: You can get it on our greenhouse episode,
Al: Which, ah.
Al: Probably will come out on Saturday.
Al: No promises.
Kevin: or hope.
Al: I don't think I'll release it before that.
Al: I don't think I have time to edit it and release it tomorrow, which would be ideal, but maybe we'll see.
Al: We'll see. It's either already out or it's coming out soon, so we'll see.
Kevin: Mayor.
Al: I think that's everything.
Kevin: That would be the bar. Thank you all. I'm young.
Al: Thank you, Kevin, for joining me again.
Al: Thank you, listeners, for listening, and until next time, have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The Harvest Season is created by Al McHenry with support from our patrons, including our
Kevin: We have a good epopia this year. It's time.
Theme Tune: pro farmers, Kevin Stewart and Alisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave and our music is done by Nick Burtis.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed
Theme Tune: in this episode.
Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello farmers and welcome to the harvest oh no
Kevin: Wait, wait, I hadn't started yet, we didn't do that!
Al: well there's our uh I hope it's credit if there's nothing better
Kevin: Yeah, yeah!
Kevin: Oh, I just started. I didn't hit the button. Okay, I'm ready. I'm recording.
Al: all right tell me when you're recording
Al: we're gonna clap in three two one
Kevin: I clapped.
Kevin: The post credit should be the collection of my off-care.
Al: yeah the funny thing is it's coming across really weirdly and because
Kevin: And I'm like leaning away, I'm diving, because I'm trying not to hack my COVID across his microphone.
Al: obviously like zoom is trying to cut it out but like only half managing
Kevin: But it's loud. I big coughs. So, say lovey.